let's not have meetings about meetings
or process about process none of that
 matters right the only purpose for
a company it's just a group of
individuals that are coming together to
build product for your customers any
process anything that gets in the way of
that crush it if we have too many
meetings cancel the meetings like I'll
regularly go cancel all my meetings on
the calendar because all that really
matters is that you're shipping products
that your customers love
and anything that gets in the way of
that and you drag kill it crush it and
just focus on speed
avoc I'm so excited for this my friend
it's been a while since we last had you
on the show but I want to start on state
with a little bit of context so how did
you come to BC evangelist and what was
that entry to the row fee yeah so the
background is Naval who's one of the
founders evangelist had been an investor
in all three of the companies I've
started uh so it started one company in
2011 then another in 2014 and then
another in 2017 and Naval is an investor
in all three and when I wrapped up the
acquisition of the last company I
stepped back and was effectively going
to just focus on investing so
semi-retired life at that point for me
since I wasn't building anything new
um and Naval approached me to consider
stepping in at Angelus as CEO as he'd
already stepped back I believe in late
2018 if I remember correctly
and it was uh you know originally it was
a hard hard decision but I said hey it's
probably not the right fit I was just
coming off of the last startup and as
you know startups are a marathon and it
gets quite intense uh but the idea of
angeless and the concept of Angelus just
stuck with me and we kept talking every
week every other week and six months
into it I fell in love with the uh
opportunity and officially accepted in
mid-july and uh Naval said can you start
tomorrow and that was it and it's been
crazy ever since now before we dive into
some of the craziness I just have to ask
about one of the startups he founded um
believe it or not um you know lost small
delivery is a passion area of mine and
so my question to you is I know Goku
um obviously and you kind of coincide
around this uh with fast bite which was
15 minute delivery and it was the first
15 minute delivery startup what were
your single biggest lessons from the
first bite experience was goggles
question so it was actually average
delivery time was actually seven minutes
um even though we build it as 15. I I
would say I'll actually share two of the
lessons I think first one is building
for yourself will lead to a much higher
probability of building something that
people love because when you're building
for yourself you then just need to
believe you can find other people like
yourself that are going to use the
product and the second one and the
reason I want to add this one is
you want to think about the variables
that you can optimize for the utility
function of your product so every
product any product you use has some
utility function the utility function
could be price convenience speed right
anything the customer experience itself
and you want to think about what are you
optimizing on because different products
actually have different diminishing
returns and as you think about really
fast delivery you can optimize on the
delivery speed but then sometimes people
actually don't want it to be as fast
right they actually want it to be a
little bit slower and so that was a
pretty good lesson for me in terms of
how to think about overall product
experience it isn't just about a single
variable what optimize on you want to
optimize on multiple Goku made a special
note of saying that it was really the
first in Market to do this how important
do you think is being the first I don't
think being first in Market matters all
that much and
before I get into the answer for that
question I'll introduce the idea of the
concept of idmas which I believe Balaji
had coined and I think there's a post on
a16z's website on it and the idea may is
basically uh talks about how every
entrepreneur has to go through this
journey of looking at an entire industry
and looking at all the twists and turns
and they base their business idea and
their strategy accordingly
and if you're first to Market you're
effectively building the idmas for all
the other entrepreneurs that'll come
after you unless you navigate that idea
maze yourself successfully and we've
seen a ton of examples where sometimes
first to Market isn't the company that
wins the market uh Google I believe was
a 17 search engine iPhone was not the
first smartphone and so uh the way I
think about first to Market is it
doesn't guarantee success and you should
probably assume you're building out the
idmas for all the future Founders that
will benefit from uh from your work I
find so many investors oscillator on
defensibility
um and I think it's just complete
 especially at pre-seed and seed
do you agree with me and finding it
completely useless at pre-seed and seed
or do you think there is inherent
defensibility within companies so let's
define defensibility as the cost to
replicate your business as time goes on
right when we say defensibility when we
talk about moats what we're really
saying is how easy is it or how costly
would it be for someone to replicate
your business and compete with you so
definitionally
you don't have any defensibility on day
one because you don't have a business or
even day 30 unless you magically get you
know pretty large Network effects and
even then I would I would doubt that
because that means if you were able to
get a large Network within a few days I
mean someone else can do it as well so I
agree with you I don't think there is
any defensibility in day one final one
and then I promise we'll get to the
schedule but what did you think when you
saw the host of European 15-minute
delivery companies launch
I thought I hope to God they are keeping
track of the capital markets because
anything in logistics anything in online
uh offline to online or online to
offline just requires a lot of capital
and capital is really a function of the
capital markets and the macro
environment and so when I saw a lot of
them launch and I think some of them
also were in New York uh the number one
thought that went through my mind was I
hope they're keeping track of the
capital markets because they will need a
lot of money to scale today will go bust
in the downturn 100 because the cost of
capital goes up and when the cost of
capital goes up you can't invest into uh
launching new cities and you can't
invest into what typically ends up being
the J curve of this type of a business
where you end up losing money every
order and then at scale it's you know it
spins back up and it does work but you
need a lot of capital to sing in in but
when the capital markets Rye up interest
rates go up you where are you going to
go get that Capital it is near
impossible which is killing Industries
one by one on 20vc last week we were
like direct consumer subscription model
does not work boom now we've just killed
a whole other industry there good glad
that we are continuously losing friends
this is me that takes the heat for this
don't worry and I do want to we spoke
about kind of funding markets there I
want to talk specifically about the
funding Market that we have today so
much has changed and you have this
incredible purview at Angel list one of
the most notable changes that you'll see
and how companies are getting funded
given the unique seat that you have yeah
so for for context Angelus supports 20
000 funds and syndicates now and we
manage a portfolio of more than 13 000
startups across all of these uh funds in
Syndicate so we have a pretty deep and
broad view of the industry and when we
manage the in Investments for these
funds and syndicates were actually the
signatory on the funds so we also
receive all of the deal documents for
follow-on Rounds all of the cap tables
all of it now of course this is being
done on behalf of the funds you can
effectively managing everything for the
fund and so from that purview we
actually do have a pretty deep
understanding of what happens in
adventure and we actually track on a
quarterly basis
to put it really really simply the good
times and the bad times we actually have
a chart that we publish every quarter
now the rate of activity or it's
actually called the boom times and the
bad times and on this chart what we have
is the activity rate as the x-axis the
positive activity rate as the y-axis
activity rate you can think of as did
the what percentage of startups actually
had an investment right some sort of an
investment uh and the percentage
positive activity rate is what
percentage of those were actually the
upper arms so you can generally sense
that if you have a high number of
Investments and then High number of
positive activity you can have a DOT at
the top right quadrant which is Boom
times awesome right and I actually have
it up here uh and 2022 like early 2022
and 2021 is like this top right quadrant
boom times and then now it's actually at
the bottom left and it's actually one of
the worst bath times where not a lot of
startups are actually even getting an
investment and of the ones that do a
much smaller percentage actually have a
positive investment and so we're
actually in the the depth of the bear
Market if you will for Venture right now
and and that spread between where it was
in the boom times and the bad times is
the farthest distance it's ever been on
on everything that we track is it a
different time length between the like
the highest and the lowest than
traditional like when you compare back
into prior
um chasms in those two dots this is a
faster compression time frame between
those two dots it's incredibly fast and
it's actually incredible that distance
is also incredibly large so typically
when when you have these dots that
collect and it's reported every quarter
they're all kind of collect you know
pretty close to each other right it's
like okay yeah there's a little bit of
variation quarter to quarter and uh the
gap between early 2022 and right now is
like the farthest it's ever been and the
fastest it's ever uh ever contracted is
the best way to think about it but
people still say prices remain the same
especially at pre-seed and seed and
honestly I think they they are staying
the same so help me understand this
because to me as an investor day to day
they are still really high prices but
you're telling me that actually it's
never been a greater Chasm where's the
disconnect here
so the disconnect would be in the
pre-seed and Seed Market versus the
series a series B series C Market so as
we look at follow-on rounds and the uh
up rounds or down rounds those typically
happen at the series ABC onwards but and
that market is absolutely compressed
pretty significantly I mean you're
talking about deal volume in series B
down more than 50 valuations down more
than 50 percent uh series a is also down
uh seriously is basically gone right
like I mean you don't really hear of
many late stage deals getting done
anymore it's it's very it's rare
um and what's happened actually at the
precede and Seed stage is all of the
different investors that were investing
later stage some of them have started
moving earlier and earlier and so you
just have a larger number of investors
who have a lot of capital to deploy well
where are you going to go you're going
to go to pre-seed and seed and so what
you have is you have preceding seed
they're buoyed and we don't see that
changing we actually still see that
staying the same and the value shouldn't
staying the same maybe a little bit of
compression but we're not going to see
at the same rate of series a series B
and onwards which I know is in good news
for you know for for you where uh you
know it would be great for uh for
precedence evaluations to compress a
little bit but I don't think it'll
happen so I think there's also an
additional component here which is also
bluntly the chat writers at the
multi-stage funds who are writing these
pre-seed and Seed checks are actually
principles and Associates because their
partners are saying hey avoc I'm
underwater with my board positions I'm
fighting so many fires go and write two
million dollar checks and be in Market
it's good for the brand and so those new
chat Riders are less price sensitive
than ever they're more excited than ever
because they're writing their first
checks and it's creating this increased
Less Price sensitive Capital entering
seed meaning the prices are where they
are which I think is is really telling
can I ask do you not think that series a
is just a Market to be investing in
right now too as well reason being any
good companies have had everything
preempted by existings and anything not
good is out in marketing so there's this
real adverse selection are you seeing
that too in your data what we're seeing
in our data is that only the companies
that actually have credible traction are
raising now so even if you put aside
adverse selection meaning uh the set of
companies who are raising from insiders
and insiders are leading the rounds that
we're definitely seeing a set of
companies who just can't raise at all
they cannot raise a series they cannot
raise a series B and for them Capital
marks are all but shut down then you
have to look at the set of companies
where they're they're raising from
insiders or they have a new outside lead
I would say that we're not seeing
anything in our data that distinguishes
between the quality of either of those
companies now definitionally if you have
an Insider that's going to lead your
company like like a true leader I'm not
talking about an extension right of like
hey let's give you a little bit more
Runway no it's hey we're gonna we're
gonna we're gonna invest a significant
amount of capital for a little bit more
ownership in your company that that's a
real lead uh Insider lead we're not
seeing as many of those relative to the
total number of series a deals that are
getting done
um so I can't comment on the uh
distinction between the quality of those
companies since we don't see that is the
structure of seed rounds and pre-seed
rounds in terms of the invested types is
it changing is there more party rounds
because traditional institutional
investors are you know more quiet that
last party rounds because the tourists
have gone what are we seeing in terms of
the structure of those rounds let's
define party Ram if we're we're talking
about party around as no investors
writing more than 40 of the check so
there's no lead I would say that we are
seeing
um we're we're seeing the percentage of
party around to non-party around
actually being the same but the overall
volume has contracted now the set of
companies that could have raised on just
a party round
uh in terms of uh raising a little bit
of capital and not hitting their target
those are gone right so what you what
was happening in the uh the Heyday of
2021 and 2022 was that companies would
just keep raising these successive
rounds and we would see it like c c plus
C plus plus right they just keep going
on and on and on and always just raising
a little bit of capital from like these
small set of like party around investors
well that's gone we do not see that
anymore those companies literally cannot
raise anything at this point
um but we are seeing companies still
being able to raise uh from investors
where there is no lead because you do
have uh several investors all come
together to kind of create the round so
we're not seeing that lead investors are
absolutely necessary for a round to get
close especially the precedent seed
stage right you're you don't need a lot
of capital to get started and close
around
um but if you're getting to a larger
seed round right because let's keep in
mind that seed is means 2 million or 5
million there it's 2 five so two million
you can do a party round five million
it's much harder to do a party around
now so I think we have to also
distinguish between the the size of the
raise itself is the time to raise a
pre-seed or a seed round is that
increasing or is it the same so time to
raise a precedent seed is definitely
increasing also the time to markups uh
is also increasing and uh what we
actually looked at this in our data
where we looked at a sample size of the
Investments over the last 18 months and
we compared it to a sample size of the
Investments uh over time since 2015 uh
so and what we were looking at was let's
not compare it to the Heyday of 2021 and
early 2022 let's actually take a look at
historical averages so how are we doing
today relative to historical averages
and when you just take a look at that
sample size of companies from today's
Samsung companies in historical average
we're actually seeing a 33 drop in
companies in terms of how many companies
we expect would have raised by now right
and so that's a pretty significant Drop
Like 33 is high that and what that's
telling us is there is a there
definitely is a freeze in the market
relative to historical averages and
there's a lot of repricing happening and
there's a lot of um still Founders
coming to terms with the new Norm The
New Normal right I mean if you're going
to raise on 200x ARR and now all of a
sudden uh you're being told it's
actually like maybe 20 maybe 10 I mean
that's that's you're coming to terms
with brutal reality at that point and so
uh we we still think we're in the thick
of it and we think it's going to take
another few quarters before everything
just works itself out
Harry and Havelock crushing one industry
and then bringing you brutal reality
this is the positive show for you uh I
know I just I I totally agree and I see
the same thing you mentioned that kind
of crowd down to kind of deal structures
yeah in your data are you very much
seeing the repricing begin or are you
actually seeing so many companies have
so much cash that they're not needing to
come back to Market
it's the latter but it's starting we're
starting to see it so in q1 so far we've
seen 48 all right and so it's 48 flat
rounds down rounds uh these would be uh
these would be the the pay to plays pay
to plays and so we're starting to see a
tick up so it's definitely ticking up uh
from you know Q3 Q4 but we don't we
think that it's still early days and we
think it's more the latter of the
scenarios you mentioned where starps do
have a lot of cash right because if
you've raised a lot of cash
you go through layoffs you increase your
Runway so you've actually pushed out
your cash out date and so you buy a few
months right and and it's it's logical
right you're you're playing to your
incentives by a few months hey maybe uh
Jerome Powell changes his mind right
maybe they bring down the interest rates
and it'll be boom times again which I
don't think will happen uh but that's my
personal opinion and so what's happening
is the cash out date was is has been
pushed out for a lot of companies and so
our our view is that these will start
ticking up in Q2 and then definitely Q3
Q4 because these startups they have a
brick wall right investors don't really
have brick wall right yes there's a
deployment period you have to deploy by
all by a certain amount but in this
market I'm sure if fund managers can go
back to LPS and say hey I'd like to
extend the deployment period great not a
problem go for it that's much easier
than uh having a startup who does have a
cash out date and has a brick wall that
they're going to run into and so we
think that's going to start coming to
play in the next next couple of quarters
do you think we'll see a spree of
Acquisitions a consolidatory environment
occur where blood needs some of the big
incumbents pick up great teams for
nothing and you know companies can tweet
they got Acquired and want to successful
that's it and you know but no cash is
returned I I don't think so
um I I know I'm probably departing from
the conventional wisdom on this one I
don't think so because I think if you
take a look at the companies that could
be acquirers uh you have public
companies and you have private companies
with public companies they themselves
are going through a pretty brutal
um rewriting of what the new guard looks
like of what the investors are expecting
now and investors are looking at not
just the cash that your business can
generate but also your stock based
compensation So Gone are the days of
like constant you know dilution of stock
based compensation and hide it from all
of the investors that's basically how it
was being done in the public markets and
so I think they're going to be under
intense pressure and you're seeing it
you're kind of seeing it across the
board even with some of the big tech
companies so I think
um the appetite to just do rapid set of
Acquisitions uh in this market I don't
think is going to happen and then in the
private Market uh the key question
that's going to come up is what price do
you believe right uh meaning if you're a
private company and you've raised and
then there's another private company
that you're looking to acquire then the
key question comes down how do you align
on what the price is to acquire the
company so I I don't think I don't think
the conditions are there for a rapid
acquisition spree
unless these are like rock bottom prices
and it's just like you know just yeah I
mean literally you're getting an amazing
deal but I don't think that's going to
be good for employees or investors I
don't think it is good for employees or
investors but I'm saying for zero and I
still think it wouldn't happen because I
don't know many private companies that
are like yeah we just got rid of a load
of people to reduce burn but no we're
going to make this like acquisition and
bring on 21 people because the cost
isn't zero exactly it's it's it's not
zero it's also additional overhead uh
for the private company uh to take that
on because even even if you just acquire
the product or the IP even then there's
a cost of integration right and I've
been through an acquisition I've been in
the other side of an acquisition as well
and uh these are the these do take time
from the company so yeah my read on it
is we're not we're not going to see a
lot and again
um because we're the signatory for all
the funds we also see M A and uh and we
we've seen that the m a even within
Angelus data M A has gone down pretty
significantly how do you think that will
continue or change over the next six to
18 months I think it will likely stay
the same our view is actually a little
bit more pessimistic uh in terms of just
the broader Market uh so if you if we
look at the next six months I suspect
it'll be the same because the current
macro sentiment is higher interest rates
for longer so that's a lot of downward
pressure on Venture as a whole because
Venture is a risk asset uh now it's it's
a you know for some Investments it's a
great profile right you invest in you
get 10 000 X that's awesome
at the same time as a broader bucket of
capital allocation it is not it's
getting compared to earning five percent
risk free and all of a sudden a lot of
people who typically would invest in
Venture are saying maybe I'll Sprint in
U.S crusheries so I think there's a lot
of downward pressure on Venture and so
we just we don't think it's going to
change the next six months next 18
months maybe
um but you would need to see uh in the
interest rates starting to come down and
starting to see some signs of recovery
in the broader Market inflation
subsiding so I would say the summary of
what I'm saying is uh it all depends on
the macro at this point not only that in
terms of kind of you know eventually
being a risk asset class and kind of the
interest rate environment Associated but
there's also this real illiquidity
challenge within the Venture model what
are you seeing in terms of fund
secondary positions people wanting to
get out of fun positions be wanting to
sell Fun positions d defaulting what are
you seeing there when it comes to LPS
within funds we've definitely seen an
increase in appetite to sell positions
and also sometimes cell positions and
name brand you know name brand companies
are actually just great companies and
the reason to sell can range from either
the investment their own investment
ratios are off right they were just
caught on the wrong side of like
illiquid to liquid or they actually just
have a serious liquidity Crunch and
they're just looking to sell and so we
have seen an increase in it the key
question really comes down to who's the
buyer and what's the clearing price
there are deals that are getting done
and their deals are getting done not
just in small funds but also very large
funds and typically these deals happen
more in the background and typically
it's around the lp base shifting right
so when LP will purchase another LPS
position and the range of discount that
we're seeing actually is anywhere from
20 percent that but what's more common
is actually forty percent or fifty
percent from last round mark and so
you're talking about a pretty
significant discount to last round
valuation uh as the clearing price for
some of these deals and is that on
Direct deals or is that on fund
positions on fund positions okay but
that's not too bad actually I think that
sounds quite like if you actually look
at like other secondary Market data some
are as much as 60 to 70 percent down
right so I I actually almost take
positivity from 20 potentially and 50 on
a bad day so I I think that's super
interesting I think the one really
challenging segment of the kind of
funding market in terms of from a fund
manager's perspective is the microfunds
these were funds which raised from you
know Founders and you know bluntney GPS
Adventure funds which is awesome
um but they're not writing LP checks
anymore do you see that Trend and how do
you foresee the next 6 to 18 months for
the microfund segment so we we Track LP
commitments based on the type of LPN
based on the product it goes into and
and so for LPS we categorize them as
individuals and institutions
institutions are typically I'm using it
more Loosely here where it's a uh it's
there's a team around it so this could
be a small family office large family
office and then a true institution
within rolling funds uh which is one of
the products that we have uh both
individuals institutions commitments
aren't actually down by much it's close
to only 20 which is very very uh very
interesting when you compare it to
venture funds uh the adventure funds are
the traditional structure uh and we have
a pretty large Venture fund business
individuals are actually down 60 percent
from like when uh when we compare it to
uh about a a year ago so like the early
2022 when there was a significant amount
of investment still going in and
institutions uh this is actually
incredibly interesting went down
and then has in recent uh in recent
weeks spun right back up and has
recovered in our data and so that that
was the one surprise that I saw as I was
going through the data uh was that the
uh any of the folks investing in Venture
funds uh uh that are not individuals
they're starting to increase their
Investments back into Venture funds what
do you think that is do you think that's
just like a stabilization of certainty
knowing why we are being aware that
actually race will likely go up a little
bit more we're all kind of aligned on
where we think we're going out the
certainty is more there I think so I
think one part of certainty the other
part is the technology cycle we're in
which is one of the biggest technology
Cycles with AI and all of the
possibilities of what it can do in terms
of net new opportunity and rewriting
Industries and uh a lot of the large
language models and their advancements
there have had a major impact on Angelus
just our own internal operations right
it's been huge and we've been tinkering
on it for many months now and it's
actually automated a good portion of the
work that we do and so we think it's the
capital from institutions we're covering
is a function of one more a little bit
more certainty of what could be
happening in the macro market and then
also just the fact that we're in the
middle of one of the biggest technology
Cycles uh since the internet or mobile
phone and that's our hypothesis around
it I'm not going to let you just like
glaze over that but I do want to just
finish on this thread because otherwise
I get too distracted are we seeing the
number of net new funds raising go down
significantly or is the number of net
new funds same where are we at there
good question net new funds is
definitely down and so the way you
reconcile this would be Capital flows is
the funds that are raising are raising
more because they're a little bit more
experienced and they have more try more
of a track record the other interesting
data point is looking at
when does the fund raise the first
dollar of capital
and when does the fund conduct their
first close right and first close is
typically when you've raised enough and
you have confidence that you're going to
hit your fundraising Target right and uh
We've definitely seen the time to First
close has increased it was three months
uh in the boom times and now it is six
plus months and when I say six plus
months what I'm referring to is the uh
timeline it went from six and right now
it's trending towards seven and what
this means is even the uh even for the
net new GPS or funds that are raising
one we've seen an overall drop right in
terms of like how many GPS even get to
the point where they're like you know
what I can raise this font let's do it
right so we've seen a drop there but the
ones who hit that confidence of like yes
I can raise this one let's do it the
time to First close is also extended so
I they've they're taking longer to close
than they would have the first close and
they would have actually expected are we
also seeing a reduction in fun sizes for
those going out yes there is a reduction
in fund size for I would say the the
much smaller funds right in terms of if
you could raise a five million dollar
fund as your first fund you're not going
to raise that anymore it's going to be
closer to one million two million or 3
million so we're definitely seeing a
reduction in overall fund size actually
at all stages at this point but
definitely for the first time fund
manager
such a cheery topic isn't it
because you you dangled it in front of
me there in terms of bluntly how you're
leveraging Ai and llms to be more
efficient and better as an institution
too interested man what have you done
and what's been the effect so a lot of
what Angelus does in the background is
we manage everything about fun right we
manage from the initial uh legal docs or
sometimes we'll work with uh the
external Law Firm down to the fund setup
down to uh regular the filings ADV
filings uh and then managing the
portfolio for 10 years right and all the
distributions that come after that and
along the way uh when you think about
all of the different workflows it
requires judgment right there's human
judgment and so it requires humans well
with a lot of the work uh and the
advancements on large language models uh
we can start replacing right what we
assume needed human judgment to do
something you can actually now replace
with code and we've taken a subset of
things that typically required human
judgment and we've started to place
Enigma code and what one example for uh
to just to put a final point on it is we
receive
um I think it's something like 15 000
emails a week
right on behalf of all the funds and and
these are not emails you can just ignore
these are not emails that are like hey
you know we'll get back to you in a week
no no these are emails where it's hey
there's this deal getting done here's
here are the Capitals your legal docs
like review so just a simple
um process of how do you route how do
you make sure that the email gets into
the right place for the right action
right used to require a human uh to
manage and Route and apply judgment well
because we now actually have all the
training data because we've been doing
it for so long
um we essentially looked at that as one
of the problems of how do you create a
automated router but it's not as simple
as like oh email comes here and here's a
subject line you send it no you have to
actually look at the content of the
email you have to look at the contents
of the legal docs so for example if it's
a follow-on round and we're reviewing uh
the the docs in the cap table on behalf
of the fund we know that what what are
the a set of documents that we need to
complete the review and what we now do
is we'll look at the documents we'll
automatically tag is it a share purchase
agreement a cap table
Etc automatically from the documents
that we receive and then if there's a
Delta it's like oh actually this is
missing a cap table well we now know hey
we respond back and automatically just
ask hey we're messing the cap table can
you send it and so that's just one very
small example of how we're using it and
we're in a fortunate position that we've
just been building up all this training
over the last over the last five you
know five to six years of just doing
this at scale and uh so when when we
started tinkering with this we're like
oh this is awesome we we could actually
just use this and start applying it
right away have look I mentioned before
we started that I'm more direct with my
questions nowadays
um that would lead to cost reduction
um it would lead to cost efficiency and
and bluntly increase productivity within
the team
um I I think I saw recently in a group
someone having a moan about Angelus
pricing for managers going way up
help me kind of coincide the two which
is like increase productivity usage of
AI to make costs lower and then pricing
going up I think what that's referring
to is the pricing uh update we made on
funds that are larger sized funds and if
we think about the journey Angeles has
been on it's typically been a it's a
very different Journey from most fund
administrators
um and most fun back office platforms
and the journey we've been on is
we've actually built software to help
automate a lot of what it takes to
manage a fund all the way down to
financial reporting tax reporting Etc
and when we when we launched the fun
product which I believe was in 2017 the
very first fun product it was like a
tiny fun it was kind of like an offshoot
of an SPV and it could only do like a
million dollars because that was the
simplest thing we could do all right and
what we have to do is over the years
build more and more software to get more
and more support more and more complex
funds more more complex parameters like
carry hurdles cashless contributions oh
I'm sure you've been through all of this
right all those little details well to
do that in software it takes time and so
our the path we've been on is every year
you can actually chart uh and we've done
this the size of the funds we take on
and every year it keeps increase and
keeps increasing keeps increasing uh and
so today uh we're regularly taking on 50
100 200 million dollar funds whereas two
years ago we were saying no to all of
them right they were coming in but we
said hey we just cannot take you on
because we can't credibly serve you for
the next 10 years because we have a very
strong eye towards software and
automation to handle all of the
um in all of the portfolio management uh
distributions Etc over the years and so
the pricing change that we made was a
function of taking pricing that was
actually meant for that was actually
meant for funds that were like two and a
half million three million five million
right from a couple years ago and there
was a pricing cap that was set it was
like you know you're I I believe is one
percent a year
capped at 25k a year which effectively
caps it at 250k overall right and that's
for everything we handle tax uh
financial reporting all of it and all
what we really did was we said well the
fund size we've taken on has kept
increasing and we never removed the cap
because that cap was meant for much
smaller funds and it was uh the change
that we made was mostly just removing
the cap and then right sizing it to like
the size of the funds uh so if you
actually take a look at the fund size
relative to what it costs today it's
actually similar and so I think some of
that is just our own I think the way we
rolled out the pricing probably caused a
little bit of confusion is it a lost
leader yeah I I've obviously been a
wonderful customer and and user Angel
list and it's amazing but I look at my
guy they cannot be making money
I mean it noisy but it's a great service
and it's not that expensive yeah so like
for those small funds is that a lost
leader when you look at the 25k days a
year and all that you're doing what are
the margins on that yeah it's it's not a
loss leader a lot of the automation that
we've built in and that's also also
continuing to come in keeps expanding
those margins and so anything around
funds is definitely not a loss leader
for us and uh where we continue to see
the margins around that increase and the
other the other way we actually think
about it is we think about the entire
business as a whole not just not
necessarily on a specific product
because when we think about a GP or we
think about an LP we think about it as
hey you should just come to Angelus and
we'll handle everything all of your
needs are on Venture going forward so
for a GP it's all their funds all their
spvs okay great they're gonna go raise
Angeles Capital right we have a business
model run Angeles capital and when
you're a financial platform they're all
of these other different ways of uh
capturing more and more value as you
scale and so the way we look at margins
are actually more holistically over for
the entire product experience uh so all
the products GPS would use all the
products LPS would be used versus on any
single product and so our margins are
actually north of 80 percent when you
actually took a look at the overall
experience uh and you take a look at
overall products that customers are
using and so again this is the this is
the key around a platform play right if
you're doing just only a SAS play it's a
little bit different when you have a
platform play you actually have products
that can feed into other products that
can feed into other products and I
actually learned a lot of this in my
time at Square so Square had acquired
fast byte that's actually how Gokul and
I started working together and when I
joined Square was
basically just the payments dongle and
in my time there I saw how Square went
from a payments dongle to a platform
where you would literally have one
product that feeds into another that
feeds into another that feeds into
another and you get this compound effect
of pretty rapid Revenue growth rapid
revenue or gross margin expansion and so
I I definitely took a lot of the lessons
from there and applied it at Angelus man
I'm loving this what Angelus product has
the best margin today and what has the
worst I would say funds have the best
margins and the smaller spvs have the
worst
and for some of the smaller sbvs those
are a loss leader for us
and this shouldn't be a surprise for
anyone paying attention we saw a sure
which was an SPV provider effectively
blow up completely and they blew up in a
spectacular fashion they basically had
took money in from all the spvs that
they were supposed to manage over six
years or ten years and uh when they blew
up they're like hey we don't actually
have any money left and so all the GPS
were now left to fend for themselves in
terms of well how are you going to get
the money today manage all the sbvs for
all the out years and the the the the
key
um learning there and we already knew
this with the key learning there for
other folks in the industry is that spvs
and managing these spvs and especially
the smaller ones it looks easy at the
outset it looks easy to set up it's like
oh how hard is it to accept LP Capital
how hard is it to close this spvian
invest in the company that's great
but what they're missing is that a lot
of the surprises actually happen in the
out years right it's one of those like
tail issues and it's not that uh the
spvs and the Taylor system of the spvs
is like you know only a small percentage
it's more about what could what could
happen that could be really costly for
the company and so it can actually Wipe
Out the margins of a larger group of
spvs and so generally I think most
people get surprised by the margin
profile of sbbs and especially small
spvs and I see this with GPS sometimes
uh it doesn't happen as much anymore I
think a sure going out of business was a
pretty big wake-up call for the industry
but sometimes I'll see GPS ask about hey
like why is it so expensive Why Can't
This be even lower and lower and lower
and uh my my response typically is hey
these are complex financial instruments
that need to be managed for 10 years and
it's not the place you actually want to
be optimizing on costs at all because
it's one of those things where when it's
just working in the background you have
someone you know some incredible that
can run it you never have to worry about
it but as soon as you're dealing with a
provider who's using cost and price as a
way to get you in you should stop and
ask them and think about why are they
doing that anyways I'll pause there it
looks like you have another question I I
mean I have so many what products have
you done that with the benefit of
hindsight you shouldn't have done we got
into incorporation for startups and
that's when we ran that for a while
and in hindsight
and we fix it we actually just partnered
with stripe Atlas and that's been great
in hindsight I think we would have
approached it by asking the question
is this something unique that angelist
can bring to the world right is there
something unique about this problem and
unique about our view of how to solve it
that we can bring to the world and bring
to the table
and if not then it doesn't make sense
for us to be doing it why do another
product where we can contribute
something new and novel that people are
going to find really useful
and I wouldn't have in hindsight I
wouldn't have tackled that if we'd asked
that question now something like rubs
which have obviously been a huge success
was something where we had a very unique
view of the world that yes rev should
exist Angelus is very uniquely suited to
do it we're very good at the overlap of
legal Innovation product experience
founder tools and so we did it and it's
been great why not Europe Europe seems
to be a a kind of Shadow region for
Angel list and there's so much demand
for it in Europe what's Angel lists
thoughts around Europe so when I came in
Angeles was in Europe right we actually
had a few funds that were there
and after I sat with the Euro business
for a few quarters
the observation I had was we hadn't won
us yet
and we weren't at scale in the US
but we were in Europe and the regulatory
structures in Europe that we need to
solve were not as standardized as they
would be in the U.S and so it was the
combination of look we need to let's win
U.S first U.S is also just the largest
market for venture and and then let's
make sure we have a clear view of how we
can standardize a structure in Europe
and then we can go there
and so I actually made the decision to
scale back and shut down Europe
um because it was just splitting our
resources and the one thing I deeply
believe is you should always always look
at how do you how do you Sunset things
like you you I think I think it makes
sense for a company to explore new
products and new expansion but if it's
not working at the rate you expect it to
Let's Sunset we've got to focus back on
the core and so that move was more about
us focusing back on the core around
winning U.S scaling us because the
ambition of the team is very large and
we didn't want to get distracted by
these uh you know by kind of solve for
the regulatory structure there when we
hadn't won the US yet I think now we're
actually in a very different position
what does winning the US mean winning
the US for us is what percentage of
venture funds are we supporting
and what percentage of venture-backed
startups are we supporting on our
infrastructure and so we look at it
simply as percentage of market share and
we want to be north of 50 across all of
the different segments as we scale and
it's as simple as that what are we today
in terms of funds and companies it's uh
so companies we we just started uh last
year with our Capital product and uh
it's grown quite fast uh I can't share
market share data yet but it is growing
incredibly fast uh and we're very very
happy uh with with that and we're
continuing to invest there on the fun
side anytime we enter a particular fund
like size we go after it we'll typically
get north of uh 50 market share pretty
quickly and so that's how to think about
it's like 50 60 market share as we kind
of eat into the different funds because
again our product is just fundamentally
different than any other back office
provider you mentioned the cap table
product envelope yeah and I kind of swim
for the warning sign
um it's kind of like uh I mean a well as
to be blunt it's like a on Direct
competitive courser how do you think
about competition what's the right way
to embrace it and bluntly how have you
been able very quickly to catch up and
level with them in such a short space of
time
so the way we think about competition is
really having an eye towards competition
but we're not really focused on the
competition there's actually this great
quote I think it's from YC but it may be
somewhere else where startups die of
suicide not homicide and I've believed
that for every single company and
candidly have you know my first company
died by Suicide I basically killed it it
had nothing to competition and so as we
think about running ageless and the
products we build
we really stay focused on
how are we delivering an amazing
experience for our customers and what
makes sense for us to pursue and grow
regardless of the competition regardless
of you know whatever market share
someone may already have and if we think
that we have a unique view on something
and we can create a significantly better
product experience we will just go do it
and the thing we have working for us is
we are very product focused we are a
team of pretty ambitious tinkerers
product Builders and we move incredibly
fast once we're clear on the direction
and so I I don't really think about
competition in terms of focusing on it I
think about it more as how do we build
something amazing for our customers with
an eye towards a competition meaning you
know you can't just ignore competition
um but that's more of a secondary thing
our main focus is on building an amazing
product and just you know owning that
market are you taking customers from
Corsa or are these net new companies
created
what's that spread it's all of the above
uh we are we're definitely uh taking on
net new customers we're taking on
customers that are using other providers
uh and so we are just sucking in
companies and customers from everywhere
at this point you mentioned about being
a team in product anchors I tweeted this
but I I think it's something that Goku
shares which is an awe around the speed
of execution with which Angel is takes
the keys what do you what do you do to
be able to execute on new products so
fast because it is faster than anyone
else
what do you do to enable that speed I
think the most important thing we do is
we've hired a group of very ambitious
people a group of ambitious people are
very dissatisfied all the time right
like all the time it's like hey why
aren't we there yet like why aren't we
building something even larger bigger so
that's a number one ingredient just hire
a group of incredibly ambitious
dissatisfied people all the time which
is great from there we just set a very
clear and ambitious deadlines right
product launch timelines
and the last piece is just keeping a
very tight Loop between the working team
and just making sure that if there are
any blockers anything coming up just
address it and then let's just get the
product out let's not have meetings
about meetings or process about process
now that matters right the only
purpose for a a company it's just a
group of individuals that came that are
coming together to build product for
your customers and any process anything
that gets in the way of that crush it if
we have too many meetings cancel the
meetings like I'll regularly go cancel
all my meetings on the calendar because
all that really matters is that you're
shipping products that your customers
love
and anything that gets in the way of
that and you drag kill it crush it and
just focus on speed focus on getting the
iterations with your customers focus on
getting that feedback so that that's how
we think about shipping really quickly
what do you think are the biggest
external threats to you achieving
winning the US market final one the
biggest external threat I actually don't
think we're in that anymore I was gonna
say I I never I never underestimate a
group of
you know a small group of really
ambitious individuals and I would say
the biggest external threat would just
be anyone that's looking to compete with
Angelus that's a startup but I've always
been like that I'm I'm pretty paranoid
when it comes to what small teams right
how would you respond to the suggestion
that the macro sentiment is your biggest
stats Donald threat if you think about
angel list it is and your trajectory in
your transaction volume is predicated on
the amount of deals done the amount of
funds close the amount of spv's done
when the market shrinks and cadences
reduced massively your business is
damaged no it actually isn't it actually
is the strongest it's ever been again it
goes back to the platform play that we
have
and how we have the you know how we're
actually continuing to move up Market
take larger and larger funds and so
while net new fund creation may have
gone down we're actually taking on funds
who have already fundraised and deployed
right we're not just we're not just
going live with funds that are net new
we're also going live with funds who are
moving to angelist after they've already
been somewhere else right so we're
effect you can think of Angelus as just
continuing to grab more and more market
share and it's not dependent on net new
funds the way we actually generate
revenue is we actually have all these
different products that feed on each
other and so we're actually the
strongest we've ever been and Angelus
has always run as if the next bear
markets around the corner literally
every year that I've been at it until
it's we've always said oh you know what
the next bear Market is going to be next
year so we have to make sure we have
counter cyclical products in place and
we diversify the product portfolio and
every year uh since uh since uh mid 2019
and we're like yep next bear Market's
coming next bear Market's coming and so
we've actually always been paranoid by
the next big bear market so we actually
built in counter cyclical motions in the
company as well but yeah it's the
strongest ever been we are we are
absolutely firing on all cylinders right
now we have a a series of new products
coming I'll just tease that here it's uh
it's coming in the next uh in in the
next couple of months and not just one
it'll be a few but you want to give a
teaser do you only give one not not yet
it's uh
it was a moment I was thinking I was
thinking that I I'm very excited I'm
very excited um but not yet I was about
to and I'm like ah no Bruce is gonna
kill me
for trying I want to do a quick fire
around Havelock so I say a short
statement you give me your immediate
thoughts we mentioned the macro there
will we be in a worse or a better place
at the end of 2023 I think worse but I
think it'll get better in 2024. what
trend do you see that others are not
seeing I think people are seeing this
um I just don't think they're seeing the
the rate of change which is the rate of
change uh through which AI will actually
uh completely uh not decimate but
amplify knowledge work but I do think
there will be a lot of reskilling a lot
of retraining needed and it's getting
deployed extremely fast across many many
Industries and so I would say the
biggest friend others aren't seeing is
just the magnitude of the change that's
coming for White Collar work who are
best place to instill that change is it
incumbents integrating AI into existing
product Suites or startups providing new
products I think starters providing new
products and I think it's because the
quality of the team of like the product
craft right or or the the team that's
going to care about the product the most
typically comes from the founders and
the founding team to bring together so I
think they're going to be most suited
that said incumbents do have you know a
lot of advantages distribution
advantages being one of the biggest ones
so I wouldn't count out any incumbent as
we've definitely seen but I I personally
lean more towards startups being able to
capture a lot of value I love Alex Ron
Pals you know will the incumbent acquire
innovation before the startup requires
distribution I think to that the whole
time actually okay my friend you can buy
one multi-stage firm and you can short
one multi-stage firm which ones you buy
which one do you short
uh Sequoia to buy multi-stage firm no
comment on shorting
you can buy one seed stage like
specialist and you can short
one seeds data specialist go sea stage
specialized Haystack um I would buy and
then short also no comment on that one
 one day I'm gonna get someone just
be like very good I don't care
I need someone who's like retired and
just doesn't give a it's gonna be a
curmudgeon and maybe catch me in a
couple years I'll maybe I'll be a
commercial what did you believe in
investing that you no longer believe
that
a great team can go find a market and
find a great Market I actually think you
need a great team and a great Market to
come together
uh otherwise you just have a great team
that can burn a lot of Cycles on a
market that is just utterly broken and
I've seen this time and time again uh
and uh that's the one thing I think a
lot about now is what Market are they
going after and I don't I and look I
think I think there's some Founders
getting that can pivot and find it but
that assumes that they'll have enough
capital in the bank to go do it now it's
exactly the same for me like 100 if you
are going after uh something really
 hot consumer education market
and you're raising 18 months of Runway
surely maybe the world's best team but
you're going to take 12 months to get to
that realization place and then you're
gonna raise again or need to with
nothing but again a good team that's a
hard another race exactly I'm touching
this environment now totally with you
what do you think the biggest investment
mistake of the Venture landscape was
when looking back over the last 18
months oh that simple lack of diligence
in the companies that they're investing
in there was a lot of fomo investing
that happened in the uh in the uh in in
the heydays what would you most like to
change about the world of LPS I think
with LPS there is a lot of focus and
especially larger LPS there's a lot of
focus on name brand and I the key thing
I would change is uh breaking out of
that cycle of only name brand and
actually looking at other signals and it
reminds me a lot of what we do as a
society and when we look at someone
graduate from Harvard uh or Stanford
right there's a lot of uh brain
signaling and I think that has a place
but when we look at our data first on
fund managers are fantastic right not
all of them but when you think when you
look at some of the returns they can be
great so if you have a different way of
diligencing first-time fund managers I
think it's an awesome way to invest in
fact ILP into first-time fund managers
all the time I'm like yep you're going
to be super hungry and you're going to
 crush it so let's let's let's do
it will Trump win the election
I don't think so who will I hope not
Biden either I I hope we get I hope we
just get a different candidate a more
sensible candidate
um but the way it's trending right now
it is not looking right who's your
favorite angel to work with them why
then Google is actually my favorite
angel to work with and why him uh I
think he's
incredibly sharp and understands all of
the life cycles of a company from the
idea stage now how do you actually scale
it and become one of the endurance
companies and Google is one of the few
uh that actually has experience in not
just starve stage but also building an
endurance company and being part of it
final one my friend Angel list in 10
years what is it then I think on the
current trajectory uh we will be uh the
infrastructure for all venture funds uh
for a lot of adventure-backed startups
and will just be the fabric Adventure
that's how we think about it it's one of
those things where all the activity that
happens in Venture investing ownership
management is just rather than being
done in spreadsheets and offline it's
all done in software on Angelus do you
think Angelus will be a public company I
don't know we don't actually think a lot
about uh going public we we just stay
focused on how do we build an enduring
company uh with large cash flows at
compounds that's how I think about it
from a pure quantitative lens that's
really all we focus on is how do we just
build an enduring large company that we
would be proud of
I've looked I was so appreciated yeah
your patience with me just peppering you
um it's been so much fun so thank you so
much for joining me yeah nice has been
great thank you
