you know ignoring Tech uh is kind of no
longer an option in the government big
Tech has been pres in Washington but big
Tech's interests are not only very
different than kind of startup
Innovation innovators interests but we
think also kind of Divergent from
America's interest as a whole you know
if America is going to be America in the
next 100 years we have to get this right
y
[Music]
welcome back everybody uh we are very
excited for this episode um we are going
to be discussing a lot of hot topics the
uh theme of today's show um is Tech and
policy and politics um and so um there's
you know just a tremendous amount of
heat right now uh in the tech World
about politics there's a tremendous
amount of heat in the political world
about tech um and then we as a firm
actually I and Ben both Ben and I as
individuals have been spending a lot
more time in in in policy and politics
circles over the last several months um
and we as a firm have a much bigger push
here than we used to which which Ben
will describe um in a moment uh but
we're going to go into quite a bit of
detail um the big disclaimer that we
want to provide Upfront for this is that
uh we are a nonpartisan firm um we are
100% focused on Tech politics and policy
um we today in this uh episode are going
to be describing um uh a fair number of
topics some of which which involve
partisan politics um our goal um is to
describe anything that is partisan as
accurately as possible um and to kind of
you know try to be as sort of
fair-minded and representing multiple
points of view as we can be we are we
are going to try very hard to not take
any sort of personal political uh
partisan position so ple please if you
could get grant us uh some generosity of
interpretation in what we say we are
trying to describe and explain um as
opposed to uh advocate for anything
specifically partisan uh we advocate for
policy topics we we did not Advocate uh
for for for other partisan topics um and
actually so yeah on that theme Ben um
could you uh you know we we wrote a
little while ago you wrote a blog post
uh about and published about the our
firm's engagement in politics and policy
uh we sort of laid out our goals and and
and then also how we're going about it
and we're actually we are actually quite
transparent about this um and so hoping
maybe as an introduction for people who
haven't seen that if you could walk
through uh what you know what our plan
of strategy is and how we think about
this yeah kind of starts with you know
why now you know why why get involved in
politics now um you know historically
Tech has been a little involved in
politics but it's been relatively
obscure issues H1B visas um stock option
accounting uh carried interest things
like that H but now the issues are much
more mainstream and it turns out that
you know for most of kind of the
software Industries like um you know
Washington just hasn't been that
interested in Tech or in regulating tech
for the most part uh but starting kind
of in the mid 2000s uh as self rate the
world and Tech started to invade all
aspects of life um you know ignoring
Tech uh is kind of no longer an option
in the government uh and that you know
they've seen it impact elections and
education and everything and they you
know uh I think policy makers really
want to get in front of it is term that
we hear a lot you know we need to be in
front of these things this time not like
last time when we were behind the curve
and so uh Tech really needs a voice and
in particular little Tech needs a voice
so big Tech has been president in
Washington um but big Tech's interests
are not only very different than kind of
startup Innovation innovators interest
but we think also kind of Divergent from
America's interest as a whole and so
that just makes it like quite imperative
for us to be involved not only to
represent the startup Community uh but
also to kind of get to the right answer
for the
country um and you know for the country
this is we think a mission critical
effort because if you look at the last
century of the world and you say okay
why was America strong and why was
basically any country
significant in terms of military power
economic power cultural power in the
last hundred years and it was really
those countries that got to the
industrial revolution first and
exploited it best and now at the dawn of
the kind of Information Age Revolution
um we need to be there and not fall
behind not lose kind of our Innovative
Edge and that's all really up for grabs
um and really the kind of biggest way
America would lose it because we're
still like you know from a you know
capitalistic system standpoint from an
education standpoint and so forth from a
talent standpoint we're extremely strong
and should be a great innovator but the
thing that would stop that would be kind
of bad or misguided regulation that
forces Innovation elsewhere out of the
country and kind of prevents us
ourselves America and the American
government from adopting these
Technologies as well um and kind of
driving that you know driving the things
that would uh kind of make
us you know bad on Tech regulation our
first really you know big Tech whose
goal is not to drive Innovation or make
America strong but to preserve their
Monopoly you know we've seen that uh act
out now and AI in a really spectacular
way where big Tech has pushed for the
Banning
of open source for safety reasons safety
reasons now you can't find anybody who's
been in the computer industry who can
tell you that any open- source project
is less safe U from a first of all from
a hacking
standpoint uh you know and you talk
about things like prompt injection and
and then new attacks and so forth you
would much more trust an open source
solution for that kind of thing but also
for you know a lot of the concerns of
the US government about like you know
copyright where does this technology
come from and so forth not only should
the source code be open but the data
should probably also be open as well so
we know what these things were trained
on and you know and that's also for
figuring out what their biases and so
forth how can you know if it's a black
box so this idea that you know close
Source would be safer and big Tech
actually got this you know some of this
language into the Biden Administration
executive order like literally on you
know like under the guise of safety to
protect themselves you know against
competition is really really scary and
so that's kind of a big driver the other
kind of related driver is I think um
this combination of big Tech pushing for
fake safetyism to preserve their
Monopoly and then rather thin
understanding of how the Technologies
work in the federal government and so
without somebody kind of Bridging the
education Gap uh they're very very you
know we are as a country very vulnerable
to these bad ideas um
and we also think it's a just a critical
point in Technology's history to get it
right because if you think about what's
possible with AI so many of our
countries kind of biggest challenges are
very solvable now you know things like
education uh better and more equal
Health Care um you know
just thinning out the bureaucracy that
we've built and making the government
easier to deal with particularly you
know for kind of underprivileged people
trying to get into business and do
things and become entrepreneurs all
these things are made much much better
by AI similarly you know crypto is
really our best answer for you know kind
of getting back to delivering the
internet back to the people and away
from the large Tech monopolies it is the
one technology that can really do that
and you know if we don't do that you
know over the next five years these
monopolies are going to get much much
stronger probably some of them will be
stronger than the US government itself
uh and we have this technology that can
help us you know get to this you know
dream of stakeholder capitalism and and
participation for all economically um
and we could undermine the whole thing
with poor regulation and then finally
you know in the area of biology which is
we're at an amazing point in that if you
look at the kind of history of of uh
biology you know we've never had a
language just much like we never had a
language to describe physics for for a
thousand years we didn't have a language
to really model biology till now the
language for physics was calculus the
language for biology is AI and so we
have the opportunity to cure a whole
host of things we could never you know
touched before as well as kind of
address populations that we never even
like any testing on before and and and
always put in danger and you know this
again you have big
Pharma uh whose interest is in
preserving the existing system because
it kind of locks out all the kind of
innovative competition and so for all
those reasons we've like massively
committed the flag and the firm to being
involved in politics so you've been
spending a tremendous amount of time in
Washington I've been spending time in
Washington um you know many of our other
part parners like Chris Dixon and BJ
pondi have been spending time in
Washington we have like real actual kind
of a lobbying capability within the firm
and we'll talk about that some more but
call it government Affairs but you know
they're registered lobbyists and they're
working um to to kind of work with the
government and and set up the right
meetings and help us get our message
across and then we're deploying a you
know a really significant amount of
money um to basically pushing Innovation
forward making you know getting to the
right regulation on Tech um that
preserves America's strength and we are
not only committed to doing that this
year but for the next decade and so this
is a big effort for us and we thought
it'd be a good idea to uh talk about it
on the
podcast yeah thank you that was great
and then yeah the key point there at the
end is worth double underlining I think
which is long-term commitment um you
know there there there have been times
um with with tech specific Al where
there have been people who have kind of
cannonballed their way onto the
political scene you know with you know
large you know kind of bomb you know
sort of money bombs um and then you know
and maybe they were just single issue or
whatever but they're in and out or you
know they're just in and out they just
you know it was just like they thought
they could have short-term impact they
they you know then two years later
they're gone um we're we're thinking
about that very differently yeah and you
know and that's why I brought up you
know the historical lens we really think
that you know if America is going to be
America in the next hundred years we
have to get this right
y good okay we're going to unpack a lot
of what you talked about and go into
more detail about it so I will get going
on the questions which again thank you
everybody for submitting questions um on
X um we have a great lineup uh today so
I'm going to combine a bunch of these
questions because there there were some
themes so jar uh Jared asks why has Tech
been so reluctant to engage in the
political process both at the local and
National level until now and then Kate
asks interestingly the opposite question
um which I I I find this Chuck's
position very interesting because this
gets to the nature of kind of how how
we've got how we've gotten to where
we've gotten to Kate asked Tech leaders
have spent hundreds of millions lobbying
in DC right the opposite Point um in
your opinion has it worked and what
should we be doing differently as an
industry when it comes to working with
EC and so I wanted to kind of juxtapose
these two questions because I actually
think they're they're they're both true
and the the way that they're both true
is that there is no single Tech yeah um
right B to your point there there is no
single Tech and so and maybe once upon a
time there was you know and I I I would
say you know my my involvement in
political you know kind of uh efforts
and and you know in this domain started
you know 30 years ago um so I've seen a
lot of the evolution over the last three
decades and I was you know I was in the
room for the founding of TechNet which
is one of the sort of Legacy you know
kind
of John John Chambers and John door so
um you know so I've kind of seen a lot
of twists and turns on this over the
last 30 years and I I think you know the
way I would describe it um is you know
this you know as been said you know so
one is look there there there just you
know was there a diversion was there was
there a sort of a distinction and a real
difference of view between big Tech and
little tech 20 30 years ago yes there
was um it's much wider now um I would
say that that that whole thing has
really gapped out um you know the the
big Tech even big you probably remember
big tech companies in the 80s and 90s
often actually didn't really do much in
politics yeah um you know they didn't
really have you know probably like most
famously Microsoft probably you know
Microsoft probably would everybody at
Microsoft during that period would
probably say they had underinvested um
you know kind of given what happened
with the antitrust case that unfolded
yeah actually the one issue we were
United on was the stock option
accounting which
um you know interestingly and we were
against Warren Buffett and you know
Warren Buffet was absolutely wrong on it
and won um and it's actually very much
strengthened Tech monopolies so it I
think did the opposite of what you know
people in certainly in Silicon Valley
wanted and I think people you know in
washingtoniana and America what have
wanted was to you know make these
monopolies so strong and using their
Market cap to further strengthen their
Monopoly uh because we move from stock
options to you know it's too esoteric to
get into here but let's just say trust
me it was bad yes yes it was very good
for big companies very bad for startups
so um yeah and actually that's another
thing that actually happened in the 90s
and 2000s is um
so there's a fundamental characteristic
of the tech industry and in particular
Tech startups and Tech Founders um which
which and Ben and I would include
ourselves in that group which is we are
idiosyncratic disagreeable eastic people
um and so it like there is no Tech
startup Association like every every
Industry Group in the world in the
country has like an association that has
like offices at DC and lobbyists and
like major Financial Firepower and you
you know these undern names like you
know the MPAA in the music industry or
the movie industry and the Raa and the
in the record industry and the National
Association of broadcasters and you know
the national Oil and Gas Association and
so forth so like every other industry
has these these these groups that
basically where where basically the
industry participants come together and
agree a policy agenda they hire
lobbyists and they put a lot of money
behind it um the the tech uh industry
just we've just never been good at
actually especially the startups we've
never been good at agreeing on a common
platform um and in fact you know Ben you
just mentioned the stock option
accounting thing like that that's
actually that's my view of what happened
at TechNet uh which is TechNet was an
attempt to actually get like the startup
Founders and the new you know kind of
the new Dynamic tech companies together
but the problem was we all couldn't
agree on anything other than b basically
there were two issues we could agree on
stock option expensing as an issue and
we could agree on carried interest for
Venture Capital firms is an issue yeah
carried interest tax treatment and and
so there were the basically what ended
up happening was again my my view you
know kind of TechNet early on got
anchored on these I would say pretty
esoteric uh accounting uh and financial
issues um and just never had a view um
on you know could could not come to
agreement on on many other issues and I
think a lot of attempts to coordinate
Tech policy in the value had that
characteristic and then look quite
honestly you know the other side of it
Ben you highlighted this but I want to
really underline it it's just like look
the world has changed and you know up
until 2010 you know I would say up
around until about 2010 I think you
could argue that you know politics and
Tech were just never that relevant to
each other um you know for for the most
part what tech companies did was they
made tools um you know those tools got
sold to customers they use them in
different ways and so you know reg you
know how do you regulate it you know
database software or an operating system
or a word processor or a router
regulating a power drill or a hammer
right yeah exactly right exactly like
yeah what you know what are appropriate
shovel regulations um and so it just
wasn't that important and then you know
look this is where I think Silicon
Valley deserves you know kind of
deserves its share of blame for anything
whatever's gone wrong which is as a
consequence I think we all just never
actually thought it was that important
uh you know to really explain what we
were doing and it be really engaged in
the process out there um and then you
know look the other thing that happened
was you know there was a love affair for
a long time you know there was a view
that you know tech there was just a view
that like Tech startups are purely good
for society Tech is purely good for
society there were really no political
implications to Tech um the way this
actually continued interesting up
through 2012 um you know people now know
of all the headlines that you know
social media is destroying democracy and
you know all these things that kind of
really you know kicked into gear after
2015 2016 um but you know even 2012 like
the narrative you know social media had
become very important actually in the
2012 election but the narrative in the
in the Press was like almost uniformally
positive you know it was very
specifically that social media is
protecting democracy by making sure that
certain candidates get elected and then
also by way Obama um you know there were
literally headlines from you know very
uh you know newspapers and magazines
today that are very anti-tech that were
very prot Tech at that point because the
view is Tech helped Obama get reelected
and then the other thing um was actually
the Arab Spring you know there was this
moment where it was like Tech is not
only going to protect democracy in the
US but it's going to protect democracy
all over the world and you know Facebook
Google were the Catalyst were at the
time reviewed as the Catalyst for the
Arab Spring which is going to of course
bring a flowering of De democracy the
Middle East that has it didn't work out
that way by the way did not work out
that way um and so so anyway the point
is like it is relatively recent in the
last 10 12 years that it's just sort of
just like everything has just kind of
come together and all of a sudden you
know people in the in the in the in the
policy Arena are very focused on tech
people in the tech world have very
strong policy politics opinions the
media you know weighs in all the time um
and and then by the way other this you
know none of this is a us only
phenomenon we'll talk about other
countries later on but um there's also a
global you know kind of thing you know
these issues are playing out globally in
many different ways uh I I guess I one
thing I would add is like when I'm in
you know I do a fair amount in DC on the
on the on the non-political side and
when I'm in you know meetings uh
involving National Security or
intelligence or uh you know civil policy
of whatever kind it's it's striking um
how many topics that you would not think
are Tech topics and end up being Tech
topics yeah um and so you know and it's
just because like when the state
exercises power now it does so through
you know with technologically enabled
means um and then and then when citizens
you know basically resist the state or
fight back against the state they do so
with technologically enabled means and
so they they're sort of you know there's
sort of this you know sometimes say
we're the dog that caught the bus on on
this stuff right which is you know we we
we all want a tech to be important in
the world it turns out Tech is important
important in the world and then it turns
out the things that are important in the
world end up being end up getting pulled
into politics yeah yeah I think that's
right you know on the second part of the
question I think that's a you know like
why is techan so ineffective despite
pouring all the money in and I think
there are like a few kind of important
issues around that one is you know
really arrogance in that um I think you
know we and Tech and a lot of the people
went in are like oh we're the good guys
we're for the good and everybody will
love us when we get there and we can
just push our agenda on you know kind of
on the policy makers without really
putting in the time and the work to to
understand um the issues and the things
that you know you face as somebody in
Congress or somebody in the White House
um in trying to figure out what the
right policy is and I think that you
know we uh are coming at that from kind
of our cultural value which is we take a
long view of relationships we try never
to be transactional and I think that's
especially important on policy because
these things are massively complex and
so we understand our issues and our
needs and um but we have to take the
time to understand you know the issues
of the policy ERS and make sure that you
know we work with them to come up with a
solution that is viable for everyone and
so I think that's thing one I think
Texas has been very bad on that and the
second one is I think that uh you know
they've
been partisan where like it's been like
not necessary or not even smart to be
partisan so people have come in with
whatever like political B mostly kind of
democrat uh Democratic Party uh that
they have and like okay we're going to
go in um without understanding you and
only work with Democrats because we're
Democrats and this kind of thing and I
think you know our approach is look we
are here to represent Tech um we want to
work with policy makers on both sides of
the aisle we want to do what's best for
America we think that uh if we can
describe that correctly then then we'll
get support from both sides and and
that's just a really different approach
so hopefully hopefully that's right and
Hope we can make
progress okay good so let's go to the um
next question so um this is again a
two-part question so Sheen asks um in
what ways do you see the relationship
between Silicon Valley and DC evolving
in coming years um particularly in light
of recent regulatory efforts targeting
Tech Giants and we'll we'll talk about
we'll talk about Tik Tok later on but um
you know there's been obviously big uh
you know there's big flasho kind of
events happening right now by the way
also for people haven't seen you know
the doj just filed a massive antitrust
lawsuit against Apple yeah um you know
that the the the the the uh the uh the
you know the the tech topics are very
hot right now in DC so how do we see the
Rel by the way that's an inter that
one's an interesting one of the one of
the things that I've talked about um
which is you you know a lot of little
Tech I think is is very much in
alignment with some of the things that
um the
FTC is doing but probably we would do it
in a very different against a different
kind of set of uh practices and
behaviors of some of the tech monopolies
and and you know it it just shows why
like more conversation is important on
these things because you know what we
think is the kind of abuse of the
Monopoly and you know what the lawsuit
is I would say are not exactly the same
thing well let's talk about that let's
talk about that for a moment because
this is a good case study of of kind of
the Dynamics here so the traditional
kind of free market libertarian view you
know is is sort of very you know uh very
critical of antitrust you know theory in
general and it's certainly very critical
of the you know current prevailing
antitrust theories um you know which are
kind of more expansive and aggressive
than the ones of of the last 50 years um
you know as shown in things like the
Apple the Apple lawsuit and and many
other actions recently um and so you
know there there's sort of a you know
for people in business there's sort of a
reflexive view that you know basically
says businesses should be allowed to
operate um but then very specifically
there's this view or you know there are
certainly people who have this view that
basically says you know any additional
involvement of the political machine
especially the sort of prosecutorial
machine in Tech you know is invariably
going to make everything worse in Tech
and so yeah you know they sue Apple
today and maybe you're happy because you
don't like apple today because you know
they abused your startup or whatever but
like if they win against Apple they're
just going to keep coming and coming and
coming and do more and do do more and
more of these the the opposing view the
the opposite view would be the view that
says no actually um the interest to your
point the interest of big Tech and
little Tech have actually really
diverged um and that actually um if
there is not actually strong vigorous
investigation and enforcement and then
ultimately things things like the Apple
lawsuit um you know actually these these
companies are going to get so powerful
that they may be able to you know really
seriously damage you know little Tech uh
you know for for for for a very long
time so maybe been talk a little bit
about how you know kind of we we think
through that kind of you know because we
we even debate this inside our firm um
but talk a little bit through about how
how to how to process through that and
then you know what you think and then
also kind of where where you think those
lines of argument are taking us yeah so
look I definitely think and by the way
right you know I mean I should f
disclosure uh when we were at Netscape
um we we were certainly on the side of
little Tech against big Tech and you
know Microsoft at that time had a 97%
you know market share on desktop and you
know it was very very difficult to
innovate on the desktop it was just you
know bad for Innovation to have them you
know in that level of position of power
and I think that's happened on the
smartphone now you know particularly uh
with apple I think the um kind of the
Epic case and the Spotify cases are
really great examples of that where you
know I am I am Fielding you know product
that's competitive with Spotify and um I
am charging Spotify a 30% tax on their
product like that seems unfair um just
from like a consumer like like just just
from the standpoint of the world and uh
you know it does seem like it's you know
using Monopoly power in a very
aggressive way I think it's certainly
against our interest and the interest of
new companies uh for the monopolies to
exploit their power to that degree you
know like look when the government gets
it involved it's not going to be like a
clean surgical like okay here's exactly
the change that need that's needed but I
also think you know with these Global um
businesses with tremendous lock in uh
you know you just have to you know at
least have the conversation and say okay
what is this going to do for consumers
if we let it run and uh and you know we
need to represent that point of view I
think from the from the kind of small
Tech perspective yeah and the big tech
companies are certainly not doing us
favors right now
so they're certainly not acting in ways
that are pro startups I think we could
say as a general no no no no the
opposite sure quite the opposite one one
one of my one of my ideas I kick around
a lot is it's it feels like it feels
like companies it feels like any company
is either too Scrappy too arrogant yeah
um but never in the middle yeah yeah
yeah like it's it's like people
right you're either the underdog or
you're the overdog and there's not not a
lot of yeah not a lot of reasonable dogs
exactly exactly so there's inherent
tension there it seems very hard for
these companies to reach a point of
dominance and not figure out some way to
abuse it um which is a very I also think
you kind of touch on an important point
which is you know we're you know in
representing little Tech we're not not a
pure libertarian anti-regulatory kind of
you know Force here we think we need
regulation in places we certainly need
it um in drug development we certainly
need regulation in uh crypto and
financial services the financial
services aspect of crypto um is very
very important it's very important to
the industry that you know to that would
be strong in America with a proper kind
of regulatory regime so we're not
anti-regulation we're kind of Pro uh the
kind of Regulation that will kind of
make both Innovation strong and you know
the Country Strong yeah and we should
also say look like when we're advocating
on behalf of little tech there obviously
there's self-interest um you know kind
of as a component of that because we're
a venture capital firm and we back
startups and and so there's obviously a
straight financial interest there you
know I will say we you know I think Ben
you'd agree with me like we also feel
like philosophically like this is a very
uh sort of pro-america position very Pro
consumer position and the reason for
that is very straightforward um which is
uh you know bet as you've said many
times in the past uh the the motto of
any Monopoly is um or what's what's the
what's the what's the motto we don't
care because we don't have to right
exactly and so probably experienced if
you've called customer service when one
of these monopolies has uh you know
kicked you off their platform yes
exactly yes exactly um and so uh yeah
it's just there is something in the
nature of monopolies where they just
they have a you know if if they no
longer have to compete um and if they're
no longer disciplined by the market um
they they they basically go bad and then
and then and then you know how do you
prevent that from happening the way you
prevent that is from forcing them to
compete the way that they have to
compete you know in some cases they
compete with each other although often
they collude with each other which is
another thing uh you know Monopoly and
cartel are kind of two sides of the same
coin but you know really it's at least
in the history of the tech industry it's
really when they're faced with startup
competition um you know when they've got
you know when they've got a when the
elephant has a terrier at his heels
nipping at him you know taking
increasingly big bites out of his foot
like that that's big companies actually
act and when they when they when when
when they do new things um and so
without healthy startup competition you
know like let's say there are many
sectors of the economy where it's just
very clear now that there's not enough
startup competition because the
incumbents that everybody deals with on
a daily basis are just practically
intolerable um and it's not in anybody's
interest ultimately um you know from
from a national uh policy standpoint um
you know for that to be the case you
know that you know things things can get
bad where it's to the benefit of the big
companies to preserve those monopolies
but very much not to anybody else's
benef yeah no exactly exactly you know
which is I would say such a big impetus
behind our kind of political activity
yeah that's right okay we'll keep going
um so um in what ways do you okay now
we're going to Future looking so in what
ways do you see the relationship between
Silicon Valley and DC evolving in the
coming years um and then um specifically
um and again what we're going to be not
we're not going to be making partisan
recommendations um here but you know
there is an election coming up um and it
is a big deal um and it's going to have
you know both both what happens in the
in the White House and what happens in
the Congress is going to have big
consequences for everything we've just
been discussing um so how do we see the
upcoming election affecting Tech policy
um and Ben why don't you start yeah well
I think there are you know several
issues that end up being really
important to kind of uh educate people
on now because whatever you whatever
platform you run on um you know as a
congress person or as the president you
want to kind of live up to that promise
when you get elected and so a lot of
these kind of positions that will
persists over the next four years are
going to be established now um I think
in you know crypto in particular uh you
know we've been very active on this
because there's
um you know we have a big uh kind of
donation to something called the fair
Shake pack which is kind of work on this
and just identifying for kind of
citizens like okay which politicians are
on what side of these issues uh you know
who are the kind of just Flatout anti-
crypto anti- innovation anti- blockchain
anti- decentralized technology um
candidates and like let's at least know
who they are so that we can tell them we
don't like it and then you know tell all
the kind of people who agree with us
that that we don't like it um and you
know a lot of it ends up being you know
look we want the right regulation for
crypto we've you know worked hard with
policy makers to you know kind of help
them formulate things that will you know
prevent
scams uh prevent nefarious uses of the
technology for things like money
laundering and so forth um and then
enable uh the good companies the
companies that are you know Pro consumer
helping you own your own data and not
have it own by some Monopoly Corporation
who can exploit it or just lose it you
know like get broken into and so you now
have identity theft problems and so
forth um that can kind of help uh kind
of a fairer economy for Creative so that
you know there's not a 99% Tech rate or
take rate on you know things that you
create on social media and these kinds
of things uh and so um you know like
it's just important to kind of I think
educate the populace on whereever
candidate stands on these issues and so
we're really really focused on that and
I think you know same true for AI same
true for Bio i' also add um and talk a
little bit more about the election in a
moment but I'd also add like it's not
actually the case that there's a single
party in DC that's protecting a single
party that's anti-tech um definitely
not there's not and and by the way if
that were the case it would make might
make life a lot easier yes um uh but but
but it's not the case um and I'll just
give then I'll just give a thumbnail
sketch of at least what I see when I'm
in DC and see if you agree with this um
so uh it would say the Democrats are
sort of Democrats are much more fluent
in Tech um and I think that has to do
with um you know who their kind of
Elites are um it has to do with this
kind of very long-established revolving
door and I I I mean that in both the
positive and perjorative sense um
between uh the tech companies and the
Democratic party uh Democratic
politicians political offices
Congressional offices White House
offices um there's just a lot more
integration uh you know the big tech
companies tend to be very democratic um
which you see in all the donation
numbers and voting numbers um and so
there's just like there are just a lot
more I would say Tech fluent Tech aware
um uh Democrats especially in in
powerful positions you know many of them
have actually worked in tech companies
just as an example the current white
house chief of staff uh is you know
former board member meta where I'm on
the board um and so there's just you
know there's there's a lot of sort of
connective tissue uh uh between those
you know look having said that you know
the the current Democratic party and in
particular you know certain of its more
radical wings um you know have become
extremely anti-tech um you know to the
point of being arguably you know in some
cases you know outright you know anti
anti- bus anti capitalism and so there
you know there there's there's a real
kind of back and forth there you know
Republicans um on the other hand like
you know in theory and The Stereotype
would have you believe you know
Republicans are sort of inherently you
know more Pro business and more Pro pro-
free markets and should therefore be
more more Pro Tech but I would say there
again it's a mixed bag because number
one a lot of Republicans just basically
think of Silicon Valley that it's all
Democrats uh um and so silicon Val all
Democrats if we're Republicans that
means they're de facto the enemy they
they hate us they're trying to defeat us
they're trying to defeat our policies um
and so they must be the enemy and so
there's a lot of you know I would say
some combination of distrust and fear um
and hate um you know kind of on that
front you know and then again with with
much less connective tissue you know
there are many fewer you know Republican
uh you know Executives at these
companies which means there are many
fewer Republican officials or staffers
who have Tech experience and so there's
there's a lot of mistrust and of course
you know there have been flat flash
point issues around this lately like
social media censorship that have really
exacerbated this this conflict um and
then uh the other thing is um uh you
know they're very serious polic policy
disagreements and there again there are
at least wings of the modern Republican
party that are actually quite uh you
know say uh sort of economically
interventionist um and so you know you
know the term of the moment is
industrial policy yeah right which
basically you know there there are
Republicans who are very much in favor
of a much more interven
government approach towards dealing with
business and particular dealing with
tech um and so I guess say like there
there's real There's real like this is
not a this is not an either or thing
like there there are real issues on both
sides the way we think about that is
therefore there's a real requirement to
engage on both sides there's a real
requirement Ben to your point to to
educate on both sides um and there's a
real uh you know you know if you're
going to make any progress at Tech
issues there's a real need to have a bip
partis and approach here because you do
have to actually work with both sides
yeah I I think that's absolutely right
and just to kind kind of um name names a
little uh if you look at like the
Democratic side you know you've got um
people like Richie Torres out of the
Bronx um and you know like by the way
huge swath of the Congressional Black
Caucus that sees wow crypto is a real
opportunity um to equal the financial
system which has you know historically
been you know you know documented racist
against uh kind of a lot of their
constituents and then also you know the
creatives which they represent a lot to
kind of get a fair Shake um and then on
the other hand you have Elizabeth Warren
who has taken a very totalitarian view
of the financial system and is moving to
consolidate everything in the hands of
you know a very small number of banks um
and basically control who can
participate and who cannot uh in in
finance uh so you know these are just
very very different views out of the
same party and I think that you know we
need to just make the specific issues
really really clear yeah and the same
thing we could you know spend a long
time also naming names on the Republican
side so yes um yes which we do later but
um so um yeah well I actually should do
it right now just to make sure that
we're Fair on this um you know there
there are there are Republican you know
look there are Republicans who are like
full-on Pro free market you know um you
know very much Pro you know are very
opposed to all current government
efforts to you know intervene in markets
like a and crypto by the way many of
those same Republicans are also very Pro
are also very negative any any antitrust
action they're very ideologically
opposed to antitrust and so they would
also be opposed to things like the Apple
lawsuit uh that a lot of startup
Founders might actually like um and then
on the other on the flip side you have
folks uh like Josh Josh Holly for
example that are I would say quite
vocally um U say I rate at Silicon
Valley and and I you know very in favor
of much more government intervention and
control you know I think a Hol
Administration just as an example would
be extremely interventionist um in um in
in in Silicon Valley um and would be
very you know kind of very pro-
industrial policy very much trying to
but both you know sort of set goals and
and sort of have government management
of more of tech but also uh much more
dramatic action against you know at
least perceived a real real enemy so
it's the same same same kind of mix spe
um yeah so so anyway that I wanted to go
through that though this is kind of
that's kind of the long whining answer
to the question of how will the upcoming
election AFF Tech policy um which is uh
you know look there you know there there
are real issues with the Biden
Administration in particular with the
with the agencies and and with some of
the Affiliated Senators has been just
described so you know there there are
certainly issues where um you know that
you know the agencies you know under
under under the Trump Administration the
agencies would be headed by very
different kinds of people uh having said
that it's not that you know it's not
that a trump presidency would
necessarily be a clean win um you know
and there are many people in sort of
that Wing who might be hostile in by the
way in in in in in different ways or or
actually might be hostile in some cases
in in the in the same ways yeah and by
the way you know Trump is himself has
been quite the moving Target on it
um you know he was very he tried to ban
Tik Tok and now he's very Pro Tik Tock
um you know he has been you know
negative on AI who's originally negative
on crypto now positive on crypto so you
know it it's it's complex and you know
which is why I think the foundation of
all of this is you know education and we
you know why we're spending so much time
in Washington and so forth is to make
sure that you know we communicate all
that we know about technology so that at
least these decisions are highly
informed that the politicians make good
okay so moving forward so uh uh three
part three three questions in one so
Alex asks um as Tech regulation becomes
more and more popular within Congress
which is happening um do you anticipate
a lowering in general of the rate of
innovation within the industry um number
two Tyler asks what is a key policy
initiative that if pass in the next
decade could bolster the US for a
century um and then Elliot Parker asks
what's one regulation that if removed
would have the biggest positive impact
economic growth yeah so I think
that b if you disagree with this I I
don't know that there's a single
regulation um or a single law or a
single issue um you know there are
certainly I mean there are certainly
individual laws or regulations that are
important um but I I think the Thematic
thing is a much bigger problem or much
bigger the Thematic thing is the thing
that matters the things that are coming
are much more serious than the things
that have been I think that's correct
yeah oh okay we'll talk about that yeah
go
ahead yeah I mean so
you know if you look at the current
state of
Regulation you
know if it stayed here um there's not
anything that
like we really feel like a burning
desire to remove it in the same way that
things that are on the table could be
extremely destructive and basically you
know look if we ban large language Mo or
large models in general or we you know
force them to go through some kind of
you know reg government
approval um or if we ban open source
technology um you know that would have
just a devastating it would basically
take America out of the AI game um and
you know make us extremely vulnerable
from a military standpoint make us
extremely vulnerable uh from a you know
technology standpoint in
general and
so you know that you know that that's
devastating similarly you if we don't
get um kind of proper regulation around
crypto the trust in um the system and
the business model is gonna fade uh or
is going to kind of be in Jeopardy and
that it's not going to be the best place
in the world to build crypto companies
um and blockchain companies which would
be a real shame you know the uh kind of
analog would be the kind of creation of
the SEC you know after the Great
Depression which really helped put trust
into the US uh Capital markets and I
think that you know trust into the
blockchain system as a way to kind of
invest participate be a consumer be an
entrepreneur are really really important
and necessary and very important to get
those right okay and then speaking okay
let's move straight into the specific
issues then more so um expand on that so
Lenny asks what form do you think AI
regulation will take over the next two
administrations um B asks will AI
regulation result in a concentrated few
companies or an explosion of startups um
and new innovation um iray asks how
would you prevent the AI industry from
being monopolized centralized by just a
few Tech Corps and then our our friend
bef jizos uh asks uh how do you see the
regulation of AI compute and open source
models realistically playing out uh
where can we apply pressure to make sure
we maintain our freedom to build and own
AI systems it's really interesting
because there's like a regulatory um
dimension of that and then there's the
uh kind of
technological kind
of you know version of that and they do
intersect so if you look at what big
Tech has been trying to do they're
trying they're very worried about new
competition to the point where they've
take it upon themselves to go to
Washington and try and Outlaw their
competitors um and you know if they
succeed with that then I think it is
like super concentrated AI power you
know making the kind of concentrated
power of social media or search or so
forth like kind of really pale in
comparison I mean it would be very
dramatic if there were only three
companies that were allowed to build AI
um and and that's certainly what they're
pushing for so I think in one regulatory
world where big Tech wins um then
there's very few companies doing AI
probably you know Google Microsoft and
meta um um you
know Microsoft
you know having you know basically full
control of open AI as they kind of
demonstrated they they have the source
code they have the weight you know such
a when as far as saying that you we own
everything and then they also kind of
control who the CEO is as they
demonstrated you know beautifully um so
you know if you take that it will all be
owned by you know three maybe four
companies um if you just follow though
the technological Dimension um I think
what we're seeing play out has been
super exciting in that um you know we
were all kind of wondering would there
be one model that ruled them all um and
even within a company I think we're
finding that there's no current
architecture that's going to gain you
know on a single thing a Transformer
Model A diffusion model and so forth
that's going to become so smart in
itself that once you make it big enough
it's just going to know everything and
that's going to be that um what we've
seen is you know even the large
companies are deploying a technique
called the mixture of experts which kind
of implies you know you need different
architectures for different things they
need to be integrated in a certain way
and the system has to work and that just
opens the aperture for a lot of
competition because there's many many
ways to construct a mixture of experts
to architect every piece of that we've
seen you know little companies like MW
field models that are highly competitive
with you know the larger models um very
quickly
uh and you know and then there's um
other kind of factors like you know
latency cost Etc that factor into this
and then there's also good enough like
when is a language model good enough you
know when it speaks English when it
knows about what things um what are you
using it for and then there's domain
specific data you know I've been doing
whatever medical research for years and
I've got uh you know data around all
these kinds of genetic patterns and
diseases and so forth you know I can
build a model against that data that's
differentiated by the data and so on so
I think what we will we're likely to see
kind of a a
great um kind of caman explosion of
innovation across all sectors you know
big companies small companies and so
forth provided that the regulation
doesn't Outlaw the small companies um
but that would be uh my prediction right
now yeah and i' i' add a bunch of I add
a bunch of things to this so um so one
is um even on the big model side um
there's been this leap frogging thing
that's taking place um and so uh you
know there's there's you know opening
you know gp4 was kind of you know the
dominant model not that long ago and
then it's it's been leap frogged in
significant ways recently by both Google
with their Gemini Pro especially the one
with the so-called long context window
where you can feed it 700,000 words um
or an hour of full motion video as you
know context for a question which a huge
Advance um and then uh you know the
anthropic uh their big model claw
um is uh you know lot a lot of people
now are finding that to be more advanced
model than gp4 and and you know and one
assumes open a is going to come back and
you know this leap frogging will
probably happen for a while so so so
even at the highest end you know at the
moment these companies are still
competing with each other um uh you know
there there's still this Lea frogging
that's taking place and then you know
Ben as you as you articulated um you
know very well you know there there is
this this giant explosion of of models
of all kinds of shapes and sizes um our
another you know our company data bricks
uh just released another you know
another
what looks like a big leap frog on the
smaller model side um it's the I think
it's the best small model now in the
benchmarks and it is it actually it's so
efficient it will run in a Macbook yeah
and they have the advantage of you know
as a as an Enterprise you can connect it
to a system that gives you not only like
Enterprise quality access control and
all that kind of thing but also um you
know gives you the power to do SQL
queries with it gives you the power to
um basically create a catalog so that
you can have a common understood
definition of all the weird corporate
words you have like by the way one of
which is customer like there there's
almost no two companies that Define
customer in the same way and in most
companies there are several definitions
of of customer you know from is it a
department at AT&T is it AT&T is it you
know some you know division of AT&T etc
etc I I think um I don't want to
literally speak for them but I think if
you put the CEOs of the big companies
under serum I think what they would say
is their big fear is that AI is actually
not going to lead to a monopoly for them
it's going to lead to a commodity it's
going to lead to a sort of a race to the
bottom on price um and and you see that
a little bit now which is people who are
using one of the big models apis are
able to swap to another big model API
from another company pretty easily and
then you know these models the business
model the main business model for these
big models at least so far is API you
know basically pay per token uh
generated um or per answer um and so
like if these companies really have to
compete with each other like it it may
be that it actually is a hyper
competitive market it may be the
opposite of like a search Market uh or
like an operating system Market it may a
market where there's just like
continuous competition and Improvement
and leap frogging and then you know
constant price competition and then of
course you know the payoff from that is
you know to everybody else in the world
is like an enormously vibrant Market
where there's constant Innovation
happening and then there's constant cost
optimization happening where and then
and then as as a customer you know
Downstream of this the entire world
that's going to use AI is going to
benefit from this kind of hyper
competition that's gonna you know could
potentially run for run for decades and
so I I think if you put these CEOs in a
TR serum what they would say is that's
actually their nightmare like that
that's why they're in Washington that's
why they're in Washington so that that's
that that is what's actually happening
that is the scenario they're trying to
prevent um they are actually trying to
shut out competition uh and by the way
actually I will I will tell you this
there is a funny thing Tech is so ham
Tech is so historically bad at politics
um that I think I think some of these
folks think they're being very clever in
how they go about this um and so you
know because they show up in Washington
with the kind of Nar you know kind of
Public Service narrative or end of the
world narrative or whatever it is and
they're I think they think that they're
going to very cleverly kind of trick
everybody trick people in Washington
into giving them sort of cartel status
and the people in Washington won't
realize until it's too late but it
actually turns out people in Washington
are actually quite cynical they've been
lobbied before exactly and so uh there
there is this thing and then you know
they won't they don't I get this from
them off the Record a lot especially
after a couple of drinks which is
basically if you've been in Washington
for longer than 2 minutes you have seen
many Industries come to Washington many
big companies come to Washington and
want Monopoly or cartel kind of
regulatory protection um and so you you
SE you've seen this and if you're in
Washington you've seen this play out you
know in some cases the guys's been there
for a long time dozens or hundreds of
times um and so my my sense is like nine
months ago or something there was a
moment where it seemed like the big tech
companies could kind of get away with
this um I think it's it's it's actually
I think I think actually it's it's the
edges there I'm still concerned and
we're still working on it but I think
the edges come off a little bit because
I think the cynicism of Washington in
this case is actually correct and I
think they're kind of on to these
companies and then you know look if
there's unifying issue there's basically
two unifying issues in Washington one is
they don't like China and the others
they don't like big Tech um and so you
know this is I this is a winnable War
like this is a winnable war on behalf of
of startups and open source um and and
freedom and and competition and so I'm
actually yeah I'm I'm I'm worried but I
I'm feeling much better about it than I
was nine months ago yeah yeah well look
we had to show up I mean that's the
other thing I mean it's t me a real less
which is um you know you can't expect
people to know what's in your head you
know you've got to go see them you've
got to put in the time you've got to
kind of say what you think and then you
know and and if you don't you don't have
any right to like ring your hands with
how like you know bad things are yeah
and then I just wanted to know one more
one more thing just for um says um uh
met you know you can you kind of
mentioned the the big companies being
Microsoft Google meta um is worth noting
meta is on the open source side of this
um and so meta's meta's actually working
quite hard and this is a big deal
because it's very you know contrary to
the image I think that people have a
meta over you know prior in Prior issues
you know correctly or not but um on on
the open source AI topic and on freedom
to innovate uh at least for now meta is
I think very strongly on that side so
yeah yeah yeah I think that's right it's
actually an very interesting point
in kind of I think essential for people
to understand is that the way met is
thinking about this and the way that
they're actually behaving and executing
is very similar to how Google thought
about Android um where you know their
main concern was that Apple not have a
monopoly on the smartphone you know not
so much that they make money on the
smartphone themselves um because you
know a monopoly on the smartphone on the
smartphone for Apple would mean that you
know Google's other business was in real
Jeopardy and so they ended up being kind
of an actor for good and you know
Android's been an amazing thing for the
world I think uh you know in including
getting smartphones in the hands of
people who won't be able to get them
otherwise you know all over the world
and meta is doing kind of a very similar
effort where uh you know in order to
make sure that they have um AI as a
great ingredient in their products and
services um is willing to open source it
and kind of gives their all of their
very very kind of large investment in AI
to the world um so that you know
entrepreneurs and everybody can kind of
keep them competitive even though they
don't plan to be in the business of AI
in the same way that you know like
Google is in the business of smartphones
to some extent but it's not their kind
of key business and you know meta
doesn't have a plan to be in the AI
business maybe you know to some extent
they will to but but that's not the main
goal then I would put one other company
on the concerning side on this and I
it's too early to tell but um where
they're going to shake out but um you
know Amazon just announced they're
investing a lot more money in anthropic
um so I think they're now basically
Amazon is to anthropic what Microsoft is
to open AI um yeah I think that's Poss
yep yep yeah and so like there there's
there's a um put anthropic is very much
in the group of kind of big Tech you
know kind of new incumbent big Tech you
know lobbying very aggressively for
regulation and Regulatory capture uh in
DC and so I I think it's it's sort of an
open question whether Amazon is going to
pick up that agenda as open as Tropic in
chly becomes effectively a subsidiary
subsidiary of Amazon yeah well this is
another place where we're on the site of
um Washington DC and in the Curr current
regulatory motion where you know the big
tech companies have done this thing um
which we thought was illegal because uh
we we observed it occur at AOL and
people went to jail but what they've
done is they they invest in startups you
know huge amounts of money Microsoft and
Amazon and Google are all doing it um
you know like billion of dollars uh with
the requirement with the explicit
requirement that those companies then
buy gpus from them um at like not the
the discount that they'd ordinarily get
but at a a relatively high price um and
then be in their clouds so um that kind
of and then you know in the Microsoft
case even more aggressive give me your
source code give me your weights um you
know which is like extremely aggressive
so you know they're moving money from
the balance sheet to their p&l um you
know in a way that at least from an
accounting standpoint it was our
understanding wasn't legal and pftc is
you know looking at that now but it
it'll be interesting to see how that
plays out yeah well the other is that's
one area another issue you know that
people should watch is um you know
that's one that's around tripping the
other one is just consolidation um you
know if you own you know half of a
company um and you get to appoint the
management team yeah um like is that you
know is that a sub like is that not a
subsidiary you know there are rules on
that like at what point you you own the
company Equity you own the intellectual
property of the company um and you
control the management team yeah is that
not your company yeah and then at that
point if you're not consolidating it
like is that legal and so the SEC is
going to win on that and then of course
you know to the extent that some of
these companies have nonprofit
components to them there's you know tax
implications to the conversion to
for-profit and
so forth and so like there there's a lot
of yeah this this this yeah the stakes
the stakes in the legal I say the stakes
in the legal Regulatory and political
game that's being played here I think
are quite quite High quite High
yes yes Ben I Ben and I has been
mentioned as been and I are old enough
where we do know a bunch of people who G
on to jail um so some some of these
issues turn out to be serious um so
Gabriel asks uh what would happen if
there was Zero regulation of AI The Good
the Bad and the Ugly and this is um this
is actually really important topic so
you know we're we're we're vigorously
arguing you know in DC um that there
should be you know basically uh uh
anybody should be completely capable of
building Ai and deploying AI big
companies should be allowed to do it
small companies should be allowed to do
it open source should be allowed to do
it um and you know look a lot of the
regulatory pushes we've been discussing
that comes from the big companies and
from the activist is to is to prevent
that from happening and put everything
in the hands of the big companies um so
you know we're definitely on the side of
freedom to innovate you know having said
that you know that's not the same as
saying no regulations of anything ever
um and so we're we're definitely not
approaching this with kind of a hardcore
libertarian lens um the interesting
thing about regulation of AI is that it
it turns out when you kind of go down
the list of the things that I would say
um reasonable people kind of uh you know
kind of you know kind of sort of uh you
know thoughtful people consider to be
concerns around AI on on both sides of
the aisle um basically the implications
that they're worried about are less the
technology itself um and are more the
the use of the technology um in practice
uh either for good or for bad and so you
know Ben you you brought up for example
um if AI is making decisions on things
like uh granting credit or mortgages or
Insurance then you know there there are
very serious policy issues around you
know who how those answers are derived
at which groups are affected in
different ways um you know the flip side
is you know if AI is used to plan a
crime um you know or to uh you know plan
a bank robber or something like that or
terrorist attack um you know that's that
you know that's obviously something that
people focused on National Security Law
Enforcement are very concerned about um
look our approach on this is actually
very straightforward which is um it it
seems like completely reasonable to
regulate uses of AI um you know and
things that would be in things that
would be dangerous now the interesting
thing about that is as far as I can tell
and I've been talking to a lot of people
in DC about this as far as I can tell
every single use of AI to do something
bad um is already illegal under current
laws U and regulations um and so it's
already illegal to be discriminatory and
lending it's already illegal to redline
in mortgages it's already illegal to
plan bank robberies it's already illegal
to plan terrorist attacks um like these
things are already illegal and there's
you know decades or centuries of case
law and regulation um and you know law
enforcement and intelligence
capabilities around all of these um and
so to be clear like we think it's like
completely appropriate that those
authorities be used and if there are new
laws or regulations needed due to you
know other bad uses that that that makes
total sense but that basically the
issues that people are worried about can
be contained in controll the level of
the use as opposed to somehow saying you
know by the way as some of the Doomer
activists do you know we need to Lally
prevent people from you know doing
linear linear algebra on their
computers yeah well I think that's
important to point out like what is AI
and it turns out to be you know it's
math um and and specifically kind of
like a mathematical model so you can
think of it for those of you who study
math in school you know in math you can
have an equation like you know yal X2
plus b or something and that equation
can kind of model the behavior of
something in physics or you know
something in the real world and so that
you can predict um you know something
happening uh like the speed that an
object will drop or so forth and so on
and then AI is kind of that but with
huge computer power applied so that you
can have much bigger equations with you
know instead of two or three or four
variables you could have you know 300
billion
variables and so if you get into the
challenge with that of course is if you
get into regulating math and you say
well math is okay up to a certain number
of variables but then at the you know
two billionth and first variable then
it's dangerous uh then you're into like
a pretty bad place and that you're going
to prevent everything good from the
technology uh from happening as as well
as anything that you might think is bad
so you really do want to be in the
business of regulating the kind of
applications of the technology not the
math in the same way that you know you
would have wanted to like nuclear power
is very uh potentially dangerous as
nuclear weapons are extremely dangerous
you wouldn't want to kind of put
parameters around what physics you could
study in order to you know like
literally in the abstract in order to
kind of prevent somebody from getting a
nuke like you can no longer study
Physics in Iran because then you might
be able to build a nuke would be kind of
the conclusion uh and you know that has
been kind of what big Tech has been
pushing for not because they want safety
but because you know again they want a
monopoly and so I think we have to be
very very careful not to do that I do
think there there will probably be you
know some cases that come up that are
enabled by AI new applications that do
need to be you know regulated
potentially um you know for example uh I
don't know that there's a law
that like if you recreate like something
that sounds exactly like Drake and then
you kind of put out a song that sounds
like a Drake song like I I don't know
that that's illegal maybe that should be
illegal I think those things need to be
considered uh for sure um and you know
there there's certainly danger in that I
also think we need technological
solutions not just regulatory solutions
for things like deep fakes um that kind
of help us get to you know what's human
what's not human and interesting a lot
of those are uh kind of um you know
viable now based on kind of blockchain
crypto technology yeah so let's uh yeah
just on the voice thing real quick yeah
so it actually I believe this to be the
case it is not currently possible to
copyright a voice yeah um right you can
copyright lyrics and you can cop
copyright music and you can copyright
Tunes um right Melodies and so forth um
copyright of voice um and yeah that that
seems like a perfect example where that
it seems like that probably is a good
idea to have a that let you Cate your
voice yeah I feel that way you know
particularly if you know people call
their voice Drake squared or something
right like you know it could get very
dodgy again you know you get again it's
just the details you know trade
trademark you can trademark your name um
so you could you could probably
prosecute on that but by by the way
having said that look this also gets to
the the complexity of these things that
there is actually an issue around
copyrighting of voice which is okay well
how close to the how close to the voice
of Drake does like there are a lot of
people who have like a lot of voices in
the world and like how close do you have
to get before you're violating copyright
and what if my natural voice actually
sounds like Drake like am I now in
trouble right and do I Outlaw like Jamie
Fox imitating crcy Jones and that kind
of thing right exactly so so anyway yeah
I me but I mean look I I you know
agreeing violently with you on this is
like that seems like a great topic uh
that needs to be taken up and take you
looked at seriously from a from a legal
standpoint um that is sort is actually
you know is obviously exact you know
sort of an issue that's sort of elevated
by AI but it's a is a general kind of
concept of like able to copyright
trademark things which has a long
history and law yeah for sure um yeah so
let's talk about the decentralization
and the blockchain aspects of this um so
uh want to get into this so Goose asks
how important is the development of
decentralized AI uh and how can the
private sector catalyze prudent and
pragmatic regulations to uh ensure us
retains Innovation leadership in this
space so yeah let's so let's Ben let's
talk about uh well let's talk about
decentralized Ai and then maybe I'll
just I'll highlight real quick and then
you you can build on it um decentralized
AI like you know the the sort of default
way that AI systems are being built uh
today is with basically you
supercomputer clusters in a cloud um and
so you'll have a single data center
somewhere that's got you know 10,000 or
100,000 ships and then a whole bunch of
systems to interconnect them and make
them all work um and then you have a
company you know that um you know
basically you know own owns and controls
that um uh and you know these and you
know these companies AI companies are
raising a lot of money to do that now
these are very large scale centralized
um you know kinds of operations and you
know to train a you know
state-of-the-art model you're at $100
million plus you know to train a you
know a big one to train a small one like
like the datab bricks model that just
came out it's like on the order of $10
million and so that you know these are
large centralized efforts and by the way
we we all think that the big models are
going to end up costing a billion you
know and up in the in in the future um
and so so then this raised the question
of like is there an alternate way to do
this and the alternate way to do this is
with we we believe strongly is with a
decentralized approach and in particular
with a blockchain based approach it's
actually the kind of thing that the
blockchain web 3 kind of method you know
seems like it would work with very well
um and in fact we are already blocking
uh backing companies and startups that
are doing this and
I would say there's at least three kind
of obvious layers that you could
decentralize um that seem like they're
increasingly important so one is the
training layer uh well actually let me
say four there's the training layer uh
which is you know building the model
there's the inference layer which is the
running the model to answer questions
there's the data layer uh B to your
point on on on opening up the black box
of where the data is coming from which
is there should probably be a blockchain
based system where people who own data
can contribute it um for for training of
AI and then get paid for it and where
you track all that um and then there's a
fourth that you alluded to which is uh
deep fakes um it it seems obvious to us
that the answer to uh deep fakes and I
should I should pause for a second and
say in my last three months of trips to
DC the number one issue politicians are
focused on with AI is deep picks could
the it's the one it's the one that
directly affects them and I I think
every politician right now who's thought
about this has a nightmare scenario of
you know it's three days before their
re-election campaign you know three
three days before the vote and a defect
goes out with them you know saying
something absolutely horrible and it's
so good and the voters get confused and
like and then they lose the election on
that and so I would say like that's
actually the thing that's that's the
thing that actually has the most potency
right now um and then you know the what
what what basically a lot of people say
including the politicians is so
therefore we need basically a way to
detect deep fakes um and so either the
AI systems need to Watermark AI
generated content so that you can tell
that it's a deep fake or you need these
kind of scanners like the scanners that
are being used in some schools now to
try to detect that something was a
generated um our view as you know I
would say both technologists and
investors in the space is that the
methods of attack of of detecting AI
generated content after the fact are
basically not going to work um and
they're not going to work because uh AI
is already too good uh at at doing this
um and by the way for example if if
youve if you have if you happen to have
kids that are uh in a school and they're
they're running one of these uh scanner
programs that is supposed to detect
whether your kid is submitting an essay
that you you where you use Chad GP to
write the essay like those really don't
work in a reliable way and there's
there's a lot of both false positives
and false negatives off of those that
are are very bad so those are actually
very bad ideas um and and for the same
same reason like uh detection of AI
generated photos and videos and and and
and speech uh is not going to be
possible and so our our view is you have
to flip the problem uh you have to
invert the problem and what you have to
do instead is basically have a system in
which uh real people can certify um that
content about them is real um we content
has Providence as well where go ahead
Ben go ahead and describe how that would
work yeah so um you know we have like
you know one of the amazing things about
crypto blockchain is it deploys
something known as a public key
infrastructure which enables kind of
every human to have a key that's unique
to them where they can sign so like if I
was in a video um or in a photo or I
wrote something I can certify that yes
this is exactly what I wrote and you
cannot alter it um to make it into
something else um it is just exactly
that and then um you know as that thing
you know gets transferred through the
world let's let's say that it's
something you know like a song that you
sell and so forth you can track just
like with a you know in a in a less
precise way but with a work of art we
track the provenance or with a house who
owned it before you and so forth that's
also like an easy application on the
blockchain and so that you know com
combination of capabilities can make
this whole uh kind of program much more
viable in terms of like okay knowing
what's real what's fake where it came
from you know where it started where
it's going and so forth I you know kind
of going back the data one I think is
really really important and that
um you know these these systems you know
one of the things that they've done
that's I would say
dodgy um and you know there have been
like big push back against it with you
know Elon trying to lock down Twitter um
and the New York Times suing open Ai and
so forth you know these systems have
gone out and just slurped in data from
all over the internet and all over kind
of you know you people's businesses and
so forth and train their models on them
um and you know I think that there's a
question of whether the people who
created that data should have any say in
whether the models trained on that data
uh and you know blockchain is an
unbelievably great system for this
because you can permission people to use
it you can charge them a fee um it can
be all automated uh in a way where you
can say sure come train you know and I
think training data ought to be of this
nature where there's a data Marketplace
and people can say yes take this data
for free I want the model to have this
knowledge or no you can't have it for
free but you can have it or no you can't
have it at all um rather than you know
what's gone on which is this very
aggressive scraping um um and you know
like you have these very smart models
where these companies are making
enormous amounts of money um taken from
data that um certainly didn't belong to
them you know maybe it's in the public
domain or what have you but you know
that that ought to be an explicit
relationship and it's not today and
that's a a a very great blockchain
solution you know and you part of the
reason we need the correct regulation on
blockchain and we need the secs to stop
harassing and terrorizing get up people
trying to innovate in this category um
and so that's kind of the second
category and then you have like training
and inference and I would say you know
right now the push against kind of
decentralized training and inference is
well you know you need this very fast
interconnect and you need it to all be
in one place
technologically but and and I think
that's true for people who have more
money than time right um which is like
you know startups and big companies and
so forth but for people in Academia
who have more time than money they're
getting completely frozen out of AI
research you can't do there's not enough
money in all of Academia to participate
anymore in AI research and so you know
having a decentralized approach where
you can share you know all the gpus
across your network and hey yeah maybe
it takes a lot longer to train your
networker to serve it but you know what
you still can do your research you can
still innovate you know create new ideas
do architectures and test them out at
Large Scale um which you know will be
amazing if we can do it and again we
need um you know the SEC to stop you
know kind of illegally terrorizing every
crypto company and trying to block laws
from being put in place that help us you
know enable this yeah there's actually a
really and you alluded to at the college
thing actually really matters so um we
have a friend uh you know who runs one
of you know is very involved in one of
the big computer science programs one of
the major American Research universities
and of course by the way a lot of the
technology we're talking about was
developed at American Research
universities absolutely and and Canadian
ones too Toronto Canadian ones and
European ones exactly uh you know
historically as with every other wave of
technology in the last you know whatever
hundred years you know the research our
research universities you know across
these countries have been kind of the
the gems of the of the you know the
Wellsprings of of a lot of the new
technology that have ended up powering
you know the you know the economy and
everything else around us you know we
have a friend involved in running one of
these and this friend said a while ago
that he he said that um the um you know
his concern was that his university
would be unable to uh fund a uh
competitive AI cluster basically so you
know a compute grid um that would
actually let students and professors at
that University actually work in AI um
because it's now getting to be too
expensive and research and and
universities are just not funded to do
do have capex programs that big um and
then he said his his concern more
recently has been all research
universities together might not be able
to afford uh to to do that which means
all universities together might not be
able to um actually have you know
basically Cutting Edge AI work uh
happening on the University side um and
then I I happen to have a convers I was
in DC I was in a bipartisan uh you know
house uh a meeting um the other day with
uh on these AI topics and one and
actually one of the one of the in this
case Democratic Congress Congress women
asked me you know the question which you
know comes up which is a very serious
question always right which is how do
you get kind of more more members of
unrepresented groups underrepresented
groups involved in Tech and you know I
found myself giving the same answer that
I always give on that which is you you
you you the most effective thing you
need to do is you need to go upstream
and you need to have more people coming
out of you know college with computer
science degrees um who are you know
skilled and qualified and trained right
and mentored in to be able to
participate in the industry and you know
that's you know you you and I Ben both
came out of state schools um you know
with uh you know with computer science
programs um that you know where we were
able to then have the careers we've had
um and so you know I find myself
answering the question saying well we
need we need more computer science you
know graduates from from all all you
know from every from every group and
then but in the back of my head I was
like and it's going to be impossible to
do that because none of these places are
going to be able to afford to actually
have the computer resources to be able
to actually have ai programs in the
future um and so like you know maybe the
government can fix this by just dumping
a ton of money on top of these
universities and maybe that's what will
happen and you know the current
political environment seems like maybe
it's not quite feasible um for a variety
of reasons and then and then the the
other approach would be a decentral Iz
approach would be a blockchain
blockchain based approach that everybody
that everybody could participate in you
know if if that were something that the
government will were willing to support
which right now it's it's not and so I I
think there's a really really really
really Central important vital issue
here um that I think you know I think um
is being glossed over by a lot of people
that I think should really be looked at
yeah no I I I think it's absolutely
critical you know and this is you know
again kind of going back to our original
thing like it's so important to the
country um being what you know America
being America should be to get these
issues right and we're we're definitely
in danger of that not happening you know
because you know look I think people are
taking much too narrow a view of some of
these Technologies and not understanding
their full capabilities and you know we
get into oh the AI could you know say
something racist therefore we won't cure
cancer I mean like we're getting into
that kind of dumb idea and uh you know
we need to have a tech forward kind of
solution to some of these things and
then the right regulatory approach to to
kind of make the whole environment
work so yeah let's go into that next the
next phase of this now which is the the
sort of global implications so um I'm
going to conjoin two different topics
here but I'm going to do it on purpose
so Michael Frank Martin asks what could
the US do to position itself as the
global leader of Open Source software do
you see any specific legislation or
regulatory constraints that are
hampering the development of Open Source
projects um Arta asks similar question
what would an ideal AI policy for open
source software models looks like um and
then Sarah Holmes asks the China
question um do you think we will end up
with two AI Tech Stacks the west and
China and ultimately companies will have
to pick one side and stay on it and so
look I would say this is where you get
to like the really really big
geopolitical long-term issue which is
basically my understanding of things is
is is sort of as follows which is you
know basically the the for a variety of
reasons technological development in the
west is being centralized into the
United States you know with with you
know some in Canada and some in Europe
although you know quite frankly a lot of
lot of the best Canadian and you know
European you know Tech Founders are
coming to Silicon Valley you know Yan
Lon you know teaches Yan Lun is you know
a hero in France teaches at NYU and
works at meta both of which are American
institutions and so they're they're sort
of an American or let's say American
plus European kind of you know kind of
kind of uh you know sort of tech
Vanguard wedge in the world and then and
then there's China um and and and and
really it's it's it's actually quite a
bipolar uh situation um you know it it
would say you know the dreams Tech being
fully democratized and spreading you
know throughout the world have been
realized for sure on the on the youth
side but you know not nearly as much on
the entrepreneurship side or the
invention side um and again immigration
you know immigration being a great you
know virtue uh but um you know for the
countries that are the beneficiaries of
immigration the other side of that is
you know it makes you know other
countries are going to be less
competitive because they're their best
and brightest moving to the US so so
anyway so we are in a bipolar we are in
a bipolar Tech world is primarily a
bipolar Tech world it's primarily the US
and China um you know this is not the
first time we have been in a bipolar
World involving you know geopolitics and
Technology um you know there the US and
China have two very different systems um
uh the Chinese system has all of the
virtues and downsides of being
centralized um the US system has all the
virtues and downsides of being more
decentralized um there is a very
different set of views uh of the two
systems on how Society should be ordered
and what Freedom means um and you know
what people should be able to do and not
do and then look both the US and China
have visions of global Supremacy and
visions of basically car and agendas and
programs uh you know to carry forward
their points of view on the technology
of AI and on the societal implications
of AI uh out you know throughout the
world um and so you know there is this
cold war two oh and then the other thing
is just in in DC it's just crystal clear
that there's this now Dynamic happening
where Republicans and Democrats right
now are trying to LeapFrog each other
every day on being more anti-china um
and so you know we're our friend Neil
Ferguson is using the term I think Cold
War 2.0 like we're we're we're whether
we want to or not like we're in Cold War
2.0 like we're we're we're in a dynamic
similar to the one was with the USSR you
know 30 30 40 50 years ago um and to sah
Holmes's question it's 100% going to be
the case there are two AI Tech Stacks um
and there are two AI governance models
and there are two AI you know deployment
you know systems and you know there are
two ways in which uh you know AI duv
tails in everything from surveillance to
Smart cities to Transportation
self-driving cars drones who controls
what who gets access to what who sees
what uh the degree by the way to which
AI is used as a method for population
control um there there there are very
different Visions um and and these are
National visions and Global Visions um
and there's a very big competition
developing um and you know it it it
certainly looks to me like there's going
to be a winner and a loser um I think
it's overwhelmingly in you know our best
interest for the US to be the winner for
the US we have to lean into our
strengths um and you know our the
downside of our system is that we are
not as well organized and orchestrated
top down as China is uh the upside of
our system at least historically is that
we're we're able to benefit from
decentralization we're able to benefit
from competition from a market economy
from a private sector right uh where you
know we're able to basically have a much
larger number of smart people being you
know making lots of small decisions to
be able to get to good outcomes as
opposed to you know having a having a
dictatorial system in which there's a
small number of people trying to make
decisions I mean look and this is how we
won the Cold War against Russia is our
decentralized system just worked better
economically technologically and
ultimately militarily uh than the than
the Soviet uh centralized system and so
it just seems like fairly obvious to me
that like we we have to we have to lean
into our strengths we better lean into
our strengths and if because if we think
we're just going to be like another
version of a centralized system but
without all the advantages that China
has with having a more centralized
system you know that just seems like a
bad formula so yeah let me pause there
and B see what you think yeah I know for
sure I think that'd be dis dous um and I
think this is why it's so clear that if
there's one you know to answer the
question if there's one regulatory
policy that we would enact that would
ensure America's competitiveness it
would be open source and the reason
being that as you said um this enables
the largest number of participants to
kind of contribute to AI to innovate to
come up with novel Solutions and so
forth and I think that you're right
China's you know what's going to happen
in China is they're going to pick one
because they can um and they're going to
uh kind of drive all their wood behind
that arrow in a way that we could never
do because we just don't work that way
um and they're going to impose that on
their society and try and impose it on
the world and you know our best counter
to that is to put it in the hands of all
of our smart people I have so many smart
people from all over the world from you
know like as um we like to say diversity
is our strength we've got this
tremendous uh different points of view
different you know kind of kinds of
people in our country and you know the
more that we can enable them the more
likely we'll be competitive and I'll
give you a tremendous example of this is
um you know I think if you go back to
2017 and you read any you know foreign
policy magazine Etc there wasn't a
single one that didn't say China was
ahead in AI they have more patents they
have more students going to universities
they they're ahead in AI they're ahead
in AI like we're behind an AI
and then you know chat GPT comes out and
goes oh I guess we're not behind an AI
we're ahead of an AI and the truth of it
was what China was ahead on was in
integrating AI into the government their
one AI into their government in that way
and you know look we're working on doing
a better job of that with American
dynamism but um we're never going to be
good at that model you know where you
know that's the model that they're going
to be great at and we have to be great
at our model and if we start limiting
that outlawing startups and outlawing
anybody but the big companies from
developing Ai and all that kind of thing
uh we'll definitely shoot ourselves on
the foot I would say related or like
another kind of important point I think
in kind of the safety of the world um is
you know when you talk about two
AIS that's a like two AI Stacks um
perhaps but it's very important that uh
countries that are in America that are
in China can align AI to their values
and I'll just give you kind of one
really important example uh which you
know like I've been spending a lot of
time in the Middle East and if you look
at the kind of history of you know a
country like Saudi Arabia they're coming
from a world of fundamentalism and you
know a kind of set of values that
they're you know they're trying to
modernize they you know they've done
tremendous things with women's rights
and so forth but you know look there's
still the fact that they've got you know
people who don't want to go to that
future so fast and they need to preserve
some of their history in order to not
have a revolution or extreme violence
and so forth and yeah we're seeing Al
Qaeda re-park up in Afghanistan and all
these kinds of things uh which are by
the way Al qaa's Real Enemy of modern
Saudi just as much as they're America an
enemy of America and so if Saudi can't
Aline an AI to the current Saudi values
they could literally spark a revolution
in their country and so it's very
important that as we have technology
that we develop that it not be totally
proprietary clone source that it' be
kind of uh modifiable by our allies uh
who need to kind of progress at their
Pace to keep their kind of country safe
and keep us safe uh in doing so and so
this has got great geopolitical
ramifications what we do here like if we
go to the model that Google and
Microsoft are advocating for this
Chinese model of only a few can control
AI uh we're going to be in big trouble
yeah and then I just want to close in
the open source point because it's so
critical so this is where you know I say
I get extremely irate at the at the idea
of closing down open source which you
know people in in in a number of of
these people are are lobing for very
actively by the way I I I'm going to
name one more name yeah uh we even have
VC's lobbying to Outlaw open source
which I find to just be completely
staggering and
in V venod so ven venod kosla who is
which is this is just incredible to me
he's a founder of sun Microsystems which
was in many ways a company built on open
source uh built on open source Unix out
of Berkeley and then itself built a lot
of Open Source critical open source um
and then of course you know was the
do.com which of course you know the
internet was all built on open source
and venod has been lobbying to ban open
source AI um and by the way he denies
that he's been doing this but I saw him
do it with my own eyes uh when the US
Congressional China committee came to
Stanford um I was in the meeting where
he was with you know 30 20 or 30
congressmen and and lobbying actively
for this and so I've seen him do it
myself um and you know look he's got a
big stake in open AI you know maybe it's
Financial self-interest by the way maybe
he's a True Believer in the dangers but
in any of that well I think he proved on
Twitter he was not a True Believer in
the dangers I'll get into that I'll
explain that but yeah yeah so um so uh
yeah I mean even within even within
little Tech even within the startup
world we we we we are not uniform in
this and I I think that's extremely
dangerous open look open source like
what is open source software like open
source software is is you know it is
quite lit you know it's the
technological technological equivalent
of free speech um which means it's the
technological equivalent of free thought
and it it is the way that the software
industry has developed to be able to
build many of the most critical
components of the modern technological
World um and then Ben as you said
earlier to be able to secure those um
and to be able to have those actually be
safe and reliable um uh and then and
then to have the transparency you know
that that we've talked about so that you
know how how they work and how they're
making decisions um and then to your
last point also so that you can have
customized AI in many different
environments so you don't end up with a
world where you just have one or a
couple AIS but you actually have like a
diversity of AIS with with like lot lots
of different points of view and lots of
different capabilities um and so the the
open source fight is actually at the
core of this um and and and of course
the the reason why you know the sort of
you know sort of people with an eye
towards Monopoly or cartel want to ban
this as open source is a tremendous
threat to Monopoly or cartel like you
know in many ways is a guarantee that
Monopoly or cartel can't last um but it
is absolutely 100% you know required for
the you know for the furtherance of
number one a vibrant private sector
number two a vibrant startup sector and
then right back to the Academia Point
like without open source then at that
point you know University college kids
are just not going to be able to they're
not even GNA be able to learn how the
technology Works they're just going to
be like completely boxed out um and so a
world where open source is banned is is
bad on so many fronts it's just
incredible to me that anybody's
advocating for it it needs to be I think
this needs to be recognized as the
threat that it is yeah and on V Noe you
know it was such a funny dialogue
between you and he so like I'll just um
give quick summary of it basically uh
you know he was arguing for closed
Source you for open source his core
argument was this is the Manhattan
Project um and therefore we can't let
anybody know the secrets and you
countered that by saying well if this is
in fact the Manhattan Project then is
like you know is the open AI team um you
know locked in a remote location do they
screen all their like employees very
very carefully is it air locked are they
you know is there super high security of
course none of that is close to true in
fact quite sure they have Chinese
Nationals working there probably some
are spies for the Chinese government
there's no any kind of strong security
at open AI or at Google or at any of
these places you
know anywhere near the Manhattan project
which is where they built a whole city
that nobody knew about um so they
couldn't get into it and you know once
you caught him in that he said nothing
and then he says back well you know it
cost billions of dollars to train these
models you just want to give that away
is that good you know is that good
economics like that was his like final
Counterpoint to you which basically said
oh yeah I'm trying to preserve a
monopoly here like what are you doing
I'm an investor and and I think that's
true for for all these arguments well
the kicker you know the kicker B of that
story the kicker to that is three three
days later um the justice department
indicted a Chinese National Google
employee
yeah who stole uh Google's next
Generation AI chip designs which is
quite literally the Family Jewels uh for
an AI program it's you know it's the
equivalent of stealing the you know if
you stretch the metaphor the equivalent
of stealing the design for the bomb um
and that Google employee um uh took that
those chip downloaded them and took them
to China and by definition you know
definition that means took them in the
Chinese government because there's no
distinction in China uh between the
private sector and the government um
it's an integrated thing um the
government owns and controls everything
um and so you know 100% 100% guaranteed
that that went straight to the Chinese
government Chinese military um and
Google Google which you know like you
know Google has like a big information
security team and all the rest of it
Google did not realize according to the
indictment Google did not realize that
that uh that engineer uh had been in
China for six months yeah amazing well
hold on it gets better it gets better
this is the same Google with the same
CEO who refused to sell Google
proprietary AI technology to the US
Department of Defense so they're
supplying China with AI and not
supplying the US which is just goes back
to look if it's not open source we're
never going to compete like yeah we've
lost the future of the world right here
um which is why you know it's the single
most important issue for sure yeah and
and you're you're not going to lock this
stuff up like you're not going to lock
it up nobody's locking it up it's not
locked up these companies are security
swiss cheese um and like you know you're
not going to you know and you have a
debate about the Tactical relevance of
of Chip embargos and so forth but like
you're you're you're you're not the
horse has left the barn on this not
least because these companies are
without a doubt riddled with uh with uh
with with foreign assets and they're
very easy to penetrate um and so we we
we just have to be like I would say very
realistic about the actual state of play
here um and and and we have to we have
to we have to play in reality and we
have to we have to play in reality we
have to win in reality um and the win is
we need Innovation we need competition
we need free thought we need free speech
we need we need to embrace the virtues
of our system um and and not and not
shut ourselves down in the face of in
the face of the you know the conflicts
that are that are coming uh another one
um why are Andre Andreas asks why are
usvc so much more engaged in politics
and policy than their Global
counterparts and um I I really
appreciate that question because it
basically like if if it if that's the
question then it means that boy VCS
outside the US must not be engaged at
all because USS are engaged yeah um and
then what do you believe the impact of
this is on both the VC ecosystem and
Society in general and then related
directly related question Vincent asks
um are European AI companies becoming
less interesting investment targets for
us-based VCS due to the strict and
predictably unpredictable regulatory
landscape in Europe uh would would you
advise early stage European ax companies
to consider relocating to the us as a
result great question um well I look I
think that that it kind of goes back to
a little of what you said earlier which
is you know in startup world like
there's you know in the west there's the
United States and then there's
everywhere else and the United States is
kind of bigger than everywhere else
combined um and you know so it's natural
and look you know in these kind of
political things it kind of starts with
the leader and you know us is the leader
in VC yeah we feel like we're the
leaders in usvc so we need to go go to
Washington until we go you know nobody's
going and so that's that's a lot of the
reason why we started things I'm on Wow
on European regulatory policy look it's
uh I think I I think generally
regulatory policy is going to is likely
dictate where you can build these
companies we've seen some interesting
things um you know France turns out to
be leading a revolution in Europe on AI
regulatory where they're basically
telling the EU to pound sand um you know
and large reason because they have a
company there mrol and you know they
it's a national National Jewel for for
the country and they don't want to give
it up because you know the EU has some
crazy safetyism you know thing going on
there yeah and I also note France also
of course is playing the same role with
nuclear policy in Europe um yeah they're
the one country Europe they're they're
the cleanest country you know probably
one of the cleanest countries in the
world as a result right but it been
staunchly pronuclear um and trying to
hold off I think in a lot of ways sort
of attempts throughout the rest of
Europe and especially from Germany to to
basically bad nuclear civilian nuclear
power yeah and the UK the UK is sort of
been flip-flopping on AI policy and
we'll see where they come out and uh you
know Brussels has been ridiculous
as they've been on almost everything
yeah the big thing I think I note here
is there's a really big philosophical
distinction I think it's rooted actually
in the difference between that
traditionally it's been called I think
the sort of Anglo or anglo-american kind
of approach to to law and then the
Continental European approach and I
forget forget these it's it's like I
forget the terms for it but the
legal it's like common law and then um
yeah I think the civil
law so it's basically the difference
basically is um that which is not
outlawed is
legal or that which is specifically uh
not uh legal is legal uh and anything
that's not explicitly legal is outlawed
um right in in other words like by
default do you have freedom and then you
impose the law to have constraints or by
default do you have no ability to do
anything and then the law enables you to
do things um and these are sort of this
is like a fundamental like philosophical
legal you know uh political distinction
um and and then this this shows up in a
lot of these issues with this idea
called the precautionary principle uh
which is sort of the a rewarding of the
sort of traditional European approach um
which is basically the precautionary
principle says uh new technologies
should not be allowed to be fielded
until they are proven to be
harmless um yeah right and of course the
the precautionary principle very
specifically is is sort of a sort of a
Hallmark of of the European approach to
regulation and increasingly you know by
the US approach um and it it
specifically it's its origin it was
actually uh sort of uh described in that
way and given that name actually by the
German Greens in the 1970s to to as a
means to ban civilian nuclear power um
you know with with by the way with just
catastrophic results and we could we
could spend a lot a lot of time on that
but I think everybody at this point
agrees like including the Germans
increasingly agreed that was that was a
big mistake that among other things you
know has led to basically Europe funding
Russia's invasion of Ukraine through the
you know the need for imported energy
because they they keep shutting down
their nuclear plants um and so just like
sort of a catastrophic decision but the
the precautionary principle has become
like I would say extremely trendy like
it's one of these things like it sounds
great right it's like well why would you
Poss why would you want to be released
in the world if it's not proved to be
harmless like how can you possibly be in
support of anything that's going to
cause harm but the obvious problem of
that is with that principle you could
have never deployed Technologies such as
fire um electric power internal
combustion engines Cars airplanes the
computer right like every single piece
of technology we have the poers modern
day civilization has way in which it can
be used to hurt people right every every
single one technology Technologies are
double-edged swords there are thing you
know you can you can use fire uh to
protect your village or to attack the
neighboring Village like you know the
these things can be used in in in in in
both different ways um and so basically
if we had applied the precautionary
principle historically we would not have
you know we would still be living in mud
Huts we would be just like absolutely
miserable Mis miserable and so the idea
of imposing the precautionary principle
today if you're coming from like an
Anglo you know American kind of you know
perspective or from a freedom to
innovate you know perspective that's
just like that's just like incredibly
horrifying um the you know she basically
guaranteed to stall out progress um you
know this is very much the mentality of
the EU bureaucrats in particular um and
this is the mentality behind a lot of
their recent legislation on on on
technology issues um France is is does
seem to be the main counterweight
against this in in the in Europe um you
know Ben to your point like UK has been
a counterweight in some areas uh but
okay also has like I would say they've
received a full dose of this programming
they they have that tendency yeah and
they've been in AI in particular I think
they've been on the wrong side of that
which hopefully they'll reconsider um so
so again this is one of these things
like this this is a really really
important issue and just the surface
level thing of like okay this this
technology might be able to be used for
some harmful purpose like that if that
is allowed to be the end of the
discussion like we are never going to
nothing new is ever going to happen in
the world like that that will that will
cause us ultimately to stall out
completely um and and then you know if
if we stall out that that will over time
lead to regression and and like
literally you I mean this is happening
like the power is going out like you
know German societ German German societ
German industrial companies are shutting
down because they can't afford the power
that's resulted from this this uh you
know kind of the imposition of this
policy in the energy sector um and so
this is a very very very important thing
I think the E bureaucracy has lost on
this and so I think it's going to be up
to the individual countries um to
directly confront this if they want to
um anyway so I I really applaud what
France has done and I hope more European
countries join them in in uh kind of
being on the right side on this yeah
yeah know it always is funny to me to
hear the EU and like the economists and
these kinds of things say oh the EU may
not be the leader in Innovation but
we're the leaders in regulation and I'm
like well you realize those go together
they're like one is a function of the
other okay good so and then let's do one
more Global question um lap gong Leong
asks are there any other countries that
could be receptive to techno optimism uh
for example could Britain Argentina or
Japan be ideal targets for our message
and Mission
yes uh so will you look for work on that
in
Britain and uh look we've got some
pretty good reception from the UK
government there's um you know a lot of
very very smart people there um we're
working with them you know tightly on uh
their Ai and crypto efforts and and and
we're hoping that's the case
um you know Japan
is having spent a lot of time there is
you know they've obviously shown that
capability you know over time and then
you know there's a lot about the way
Japanese Society works that that holds
them back from that at times as well um
you know without getting into all the
specifics there's you know they have a
very I would just say unusual and unique
culture um that has a great difference
for the old way of doing things um which
sometimes makes it hard to kind of
promote the new way of doing things I
also think you know around the world
World um you know the the Middle East is
very very kind of subject and and kind
of on board with techno optimism um the
UAE uh Saudi Israel of course um you
know many many countries out there are
very excited about you know the these
kinds of ideas and Tak the world forward
and like you know just creating a better
world through
technology um which I think that look
with our population growth if we don't
have a better world through technology
we're going to have a worse world
without techn I think that's like very
obvious uh so it's a it's a very
compelling message and oh by the way
South America I should say also um there
there are a lot of countries who are
really embracing techno optimism now in
South America and and that's you know
and some great new leadership there that
you know that's pushing that yeah I
would also say if you look at the
polling on this um what I think you find
is what I what you could describe as the
younger countries are more enthusiastic
about technology and I I don't mean
younger here literally of like when they
were formed but I mean two things one is
how recently they've kind of emerged
into what we would consider to be
modernity yeah um and so you know for
example to embrace you know Concepts
like democracy or free market capitalism
or you know Innovation generally um you
know global trade and so forth and then
the other is just quite simply the the
the the number of the the demographics
the the you know the the countries with
a a larger number of people and those
are often by the way the same countries
right they have a they have the reverse
demographic pyramid we have where they
actually have a lot of young people um
and young people are both you know both
young people both need Economic
Opportunity and are very fired up about
new ideas yeah by the way this is true
in Africa as well and many African
countries you know uh Nigeria Rwanda
Ghana they were their techno optimism I
think is taking hold in a real way you
know they they they need some of them
need governance improvements but um they
definitely also have young population
Saudi think 70% of the population is
under 30 so you know just to your point
um that the that very very very hopeful
in those areas uh Ben uh gtra asks do
you think the lobbying efforts by good
faith American crypto firms will be able
to move the needle politically in the
next few years um what areas make you
optimistic as it relates to American
crypto regulation crypto blockchain web
3 yeah so I think that I I I'm hopeful
I'm as hopeful as I've ever been um so
there's a there's a bunch of things that
have been really positive first of all
you know the SEC has lost I think five
cases in a row so you know like some of
their like arbitrary um enforcement of
things that aren't laws is not working
um secondly uh you know there was a bill
that passed through the house um or the
house Financial Services committee uh
which is a very I would say good bill on
crypto regulation and you know hopefully
that will eventually pass the house and
the Senate um there's
uh you know we we've seen um Wyoming I
think adopt
really good new laws around Dows um and
so there's uh some progress there um and
then you know there's been uh you know
we've been working really really hard to
educate members of Congress um and the
administration on kind of the value of
the technology uh there are strong
opponents to it you know as I mentioned
earlier and you know that's you that
continues to be worrisome um but uh but
I I think we're making great progress
and and the fair Shake pack has done a
just a tremendous job of you know kind
of backing Pro crypto candidates and
with great success there were six
different races on super Tuesday that
they backed and all six uh won so um you
know another good sign y fantastic hit a
couple other topics here quickly to get
under the wire um so Father Time asks
can you give us your thoughts on the
recent Tik Tock legislation if passed
what does this mean for big Tech going
forward and so I'll just let me give a
quick swing at that um so the Tik Tock
legislation being proposed by the US
Congress and currently being taken up in
the Senate which by the way uh and the
President Biden has already said he'll
sign it if it if it if the Senate and
the House pass it um this is legislation
that would require uh a require a
divestment of Tik Tok from its Chinese
parent company bite dance um and so Tik
Tok would have to be a purely American
company or would have to be owned by a
purely American company um and then
failing that it would be a ban of Tik
Tok um uh in in in the US um
this bill is a great example of the sort
of bipartisan dynamic in DC right now on
the topic of China which is this bill is
being enthusiastically supported by the
majority of politicians on both sides of
the aisle um I think it passed out of
its committee um like 50 to zero um
which you know is basically like it's
impossible to get anybody in DC to agree
on anything right now except basically
basically this so this is like super
bipartisan and then it's you know the
the head of that committee is a
republican uh Mike Gallagher and and you
know he immediately he worked in a
bipartisan way with his committee
members but you know the Democratic
White House immediately endorsed it bill
so so like you know this bill has like
serious momentum the Senate is taking up
right now um they're going to they're
likely to modify it in some way but it
it seems you know reasonably like
reasonably likely to pass based on what
what we can
see um you know I would say like I said
by overwhelmingly bipartisan support um
and you know look the argument for the
ban is I would say a couple different
way or not the the divestment or the ban
number one is just like you know a an
app on every on Americans on the phones
of every you know a large percent of
Americans with the surveillance and
potential propaganda kind of aspects of
that you know certainly has people in
Washington concerned and then quite
frankly there's an underlying industrial
you know dynamic which is you know the
you know the US the US internet
companies can't operate in China so
there's a you know there's there's a
sort of an unfair symmetry underneath
this that really undercuts you know I
think a lot of a lot of the a lot of the
arguments for bite dance um it has been
striking to see that uh there are
actually opponents of this Bild who have
emerged and I would describe on sort of
the further to the right and further to
the left in their respective parties um
and um you know they they you know that
those folks and I won't go through
detail but those folks make a variety a
variety of of arguments um one of the
and let mect characterize the Le the
surface level I think on the on the
further on the left I think that there
are people who think that um uh
especially kind of further left Congress
people who feel like Tik Tok is actually
a really important and vital messaging
uh system for them to be able to use
with their constituents who tend to be
younger um in very internet and so so
there's that which you know is
interesting um but then on the on the
further on the right um there is a lot
and our friend David sax for example
might be an example of this um there are
a fair number of people who are very
worried that um the US government is so
prone to abuse any regulatory capability
with respect to Tech and especially with
respect to censorship that basically if
you hand the US government any new
regulatory Authority or legal Authority
at all to come down on Tech it will
inevitably be used not just against the
Chinese company but it will also then be
used against the American companies and
so you know it's kind of it's it's there
you know some drama that's surfacing
around this and and you know we we'll
see whether the opponents can um you
know can kind of kind of pull it through
um you know look quite frankly I you
know I I you know without coming down
particularly on like I think there's
there's one of those cases where there's
actually like excellent arguments like
on all three sides like I think you
there are like very legitimate questions
here um and so um you know I think it's
great that the issue is being confronted
but I think it's also great that the you
know that the arguments have been
surfaced and that we're going to you
know hopefully figure out the right
thing to do um couple closing things um
uh close on let's see hopefully a semi-
optimistic note so um John Potter asks
how do you most effectively find common
ground with groups and interests that
you benefit from working with but with
which you are usually opposed
ideologically or otherwise I mean I
think this is uh you know there's this
term in in Washington Common Ground um
and I think that you know you always
want to start by finding the common
ground because I'll tell you something
in politics generally is most people
have the same intention um you know like
in Washington in fact you know people
want life to be fair um you know they
want they don't want people to go hungry
um they want you know citizens to be
safe but have plenty of opportunity so
like there's a lot of common ground the
the differences lie not in the intent
but how you get there like what is the
right
policy to achieve the goal and you know
so I think it's always important to
start with the goal and then kind of
work our way through you know why we
think our policy position is correct um
you know
like we don't really have a lot
of disagreements on stated intent at
least I mean I think there are some
intentions um that are that are very
difficult in Washington you know like
the
you know the the intention to kind of
control the financial system is a you
know from the government or nationalize
the banks or kind of achieve the
equivalent of nationalizing the banks is
you know when you have that intent
that's tough but like if you start with
you know most intentions are I think um
you know shared between you know us and
policy makers on both sides and then
we'll close on this great question Zach
asks would either of you ever consider
running for office and for fun what
would be your
platform um so I
want uh just because look you know I
think being a politician requires a
certain kind of skill set and attitude
and and energy from certain things that
that I I don't possess unfortunately do
you have a do you have a platform you
would run on if you did
run yeah
okay yeah let's hear your platform uh
the American
dream um so I I I won't do it now but I
like to put up this chart that shows the
change in prices in different sectors of
the economy over time and what you
basically see is the price of like
television sets and software and video
games are like crashing hard right in a
way that's like great for consumers you
know like I you I saw 75 inch flat
screen ultra high depth TVs now or down
below $500 like you know just it's great
it's amazing like when technolog is
allowed to work its magic like prices
crash in a way this just great for
consumers and it's equivalent of a giant
basically you know when prices drop it's
equivalent of a raise um um uh so makes
makes human welfare a lot better um the
three uh uh elements of the economy that
are Central to the American dream are uh
Healthcare education and housing right
and so if you think about what does it
mean to have the American dream it means
to be able to buy and own a home it
means being able to send your kids to
Great Schools get great education to
have a great life uh and then it means
you know great Healthcare to be able to
take care of yourself and your family
the prices on those are skyrocketing uh
they're just like straight to the
moon and of course those are the sectors
that are the most controlled by the
government there where there's the most
subsidies for demand from the government
there's the most restrictions on Supply
from the government and there is the
most interference with the ability to
field uh technology and and startups um
and the result is we have an entire
generation of kids um who basically I
think are quite rational and looking
forward and basically saying I'm never
going to be able to achieve the American
dream I'm never going to be able to own
a home
I'm never going to be able to get a good
education or send my kids to good
education I'm not going to be able to
get good healthare basically I'm I'm I'm
I'm not going to be able to live the
life that my parents live or my
grandparents live and I'm not going to
be a I'm not going to be able to
fundamentally form a family provide for
my kids and I think that's the I think
that's I my opinion that's the
underlying theme to kind of what has
gone wrong um sort of socially
politically um psychologically uh in the
country that's what's led to the sort of
intense level of pessimism That's What's
led to sort of this attraction you know
kind of very zero some uh politics to uh
you know recrimination over over over
optimism and building um and so I I
would I would I would I would confront
that absolutely directly um and then of
course I would point out that I I don't
think anybody in Washington is doing
that right now
so either either I would either I would
win because I'm the only one saying it
out loud or I would lose because nobody
cares but I I think it would uh I've
always wondered whether that actually
would would whether both on the
substance and the and on the message
whether that would be a uh the right
platform yeah no it would certainly be
the thing to do as the thing it's very
complex in that um you know Health Care
policy is largely National but education
policy and housing policy has also got a
very large local component so it' be a
compli kind of complicated set of
policies that you'd have to enforce you
uh we still have a ton of questions so
we may do part two on this at some point
but we really appreciate your time and
attention and we will see you soon okay
thank
you
[Music]
