all data comes from the same place which
is the past but if the future looks
different from the past your data is
completely useless the biggest risk of
raising too much money is you just lose
discipline I've never seen a company
successfully raise a bunch of money and
not start spending it in ways that
aren't actually very smart my advice
would be like if you raise a lot of
money you should immediately the next
day do a the goal of a culture is to
drive velocity you got to have trust
which means people doing what they say
putting the issues on the table we have
an open channel in our slack instance
where anybody can ask the leadership
team a question and I think that builds
trust we're at an interesting moment
right now where globalization is in
question like whether or not will we
just produce everything domestically how
do you think about the future for trade
with China China has a few advantages
that we don't have China believes
in Ryan I am so excited for this I can't
believe how long it's been since our
last show I was I was young when we last
did a show so thank you for joining me
today oh my pleasure they me backr not
at all but I want to start with a bit of
a weird one but I find it actually quite
informative think back to when you were
young you and your bro growing up what
did you want to be when you were growing
up ran oh wow I don't think I ever had
that many Ambitions I don't remember to
be
honest did someone tell you did my
brother tell you what I wanted to be I
don't remember no I'm just always
fascinated by it but I think it's always
indicative did you know that you would
be successful no I don't think so I
spent a lot of my time learning
languages when I was younger and I would
likeed Adventure you know I wanted to
get out there my favorite uh kids book
was always Curious George want to get
out there and see what's happening in
the world go some go some Adventures
caus some trouble so yeah s uh you know
I lived in lived in like five countries
before I was 24 something uh learned how
to speak Spanish Portuguese Chinese
little French but uh it was all just in
the spirit of Adventure I don't think I
had like longer term ambition than so
got into working for my brother and
doing business in the spirit of
Adventure that takes you to China and
reselling scooters motorbikes how does
that lead to flag Sport with your bro 20
years ago early 2000s we my brother I I
started work for my brother when I
graduated from college and we built this
company buying motorcycles off-road
vehicles dirt bikes ATVs dune buggies
and selling them through the internet
and it was really a technology company
like we didn't Market ourselves that way
but it was before Shopify and strip and
we had to build our own inventory
management systems and accounting and it
was in the browser like in the late
early
2000s um so you know we should have
built like a software company and sold
the software instead we kind of sold
this motorcycles but we learned a ton
about import export and about how
difficult it was to work with the great
foring and logistics companies in the
world both because of a lack of
Technology like fundamentally I mean 20
years ago there was just nothing the the
truck trucking side we could 20 years
ago log in to platforms and gets rates
uh and we built a lot of automation
around that but the the inbound side the
import of containers and Air Freight
like just nothing we couldn't get
anything and then two I felt like the
freight forwarding industry just really
didn't wasn't easy to work with they
didn't want to see the world through my
eyes and help me as an entrepreneur to
build my business there's a lot of
Arcane terminology kind of code words
acronyms
and now my working model is these are
rookie detectors so they can figure out
whether or not I know anything and if I
can't they can charge me a lot of money
um but we wanted to build a company that
kind of like makes it simple to
understand import boort helps you and we
want to make money but we'll do that by
helping you grow your business um and
and using technology to make things easy
so yeah it really came out of like a
frustration as a customer feeling like
man these companies are like they make a
lot of money they're good businesses but
they just aren't very easy to work with
uh and both Tech and a culture of
customer engagement can make it a lot
better no I I totally get that sometimes
sounds like quite a lot of tech Founders
to be
honest um I do have to ask you know I I
spoke to many of our mutual friends
before the show and they said ask about
the time slightly away from being CEO
and your Reflections on that time you
were CEO for so many years and then you
had a little bit of time away how did
you that time and how did you reflect on
your life and flex board in that period
I wasn't really a way I was the chairman
of the board for Flex board so I was
less involved I was more of a board
member I would say I spent a lot of time
well I did spent a lot of time with my
family I've got two young kids um and a
wonderful wife so spent a lot of time
with the family I I think the the time
to reflect and really think about the
business from first principles as an
investor was really valuable I became an
investor I joined Founders fund as a
partner uh and which is like one of the
top VC funds in the world and and so I
looked at a lot of businesses and I
started looking at flexport from the
mindset of an investor rather than a
Founder I think that was actually really
healthy to kind of step back and look
and look at the p&l look at the business
model think a little bit more clear
added about where we are you know you're
in the business every day it's a little
bit hard to step back did you see it
differently when you looked at it as an
investor through that lens yeah I did I
did I think um looking at it from my
sort of a balance sheet perspective
return on assets return on Capital
return on invested Capital how do you
think about uh what kinds of return on
Capital do you want to generate how
should you reinvest profits how do you
generate profit and then reinvest it in
ways that compound and yeah more like an
Investor's had rather than a Founder we
just like build build build solve
problems and build and the investor can
take a step back and like look at the
company without even looking deep into
the company just by reading the the
income statement and balance sheet and
those are kinds of things like bounders
need to do way more often is like really
live in reality and and sit down with
their business and look at it the way an
investor look at it did you take those
Reflections into how you act as CEO
today like have you kept that lens and
applied those Reflections into how your
action plan is today for sure yeah I
mean I came back to the company about
two months ago first thing you know I
come back with basically three things
now I'm not saying oh I come back as an
investor I do there are some aspects of
what I'm doing right now that feel a bit
like private Equity have come in and you
know run a tight ship we cut 27% of our
costs already in my first five weeks uh
we've got a road map to to get the
company profitable by next year by the
end of next year without raising prices
for our customers so that's super
important but that's not the most
important thing I'm doing actually the
most important thing I'm doing right now
is actually as not not something an
investor would do it's really about the
culture of the company and driving a
culture where our leadership starting
with me but all of the people in
leadership at the company are way more
in tune with our customers and with the
people that serve the customers like
spending way more time on the front
lines um getting to know the customer
getting to know the problems that
customers have whether that's a problem
with how we operate but more often it's
a problem out there in the world of
supply chain and how do we solve that
and then I can't meet all the customers
I've done 115 customer calls in the
first eight weeks on the job um try to
do four or five every single day the um
I can't meet all the customers but I can
meet all the teams that are meeting the
customers and synthesize that feedback
and make sure we're actually addressing
all the key issues that are that are out
there and so yeah that's that's that's
probably the most important thing I'm
doing even though it gets more headlines
say I'm cleaning up by cutting cost and
stuff like this when you look at those
115 calls what have been your biggest
lessons from doing them well customers
really like flexb they they want us to
succeed they love our vision they love
what we stand for they love our people
and they love they love our products
they've given us a lot of feedback of
areas of like oh you know the biggest
things in logistics are on Time
Performance
cost and accur accy of data and they've
given us a lot of feedback of areas that
you're like hey you guys need to do
better on this or that thing and it's
great because it lines up with exactly
our road maps and where we're focused on
so that's been like confirmatory I
learned something in every call the
other things I learned is how much
customers like flexb capital flexport
capital is our our inventory financing
product we Finance the inventory as it's
traveling through Logistics networks uh
and customers who use that are super
happy with flexx work because we're
giving them money and financing their
business which isn't surprising but they
also become more profitable too so it's
just like a huge win-win they become
stickier you know help them grow they
grow more that was a little surprising I
didn't know how the C capital I had
spend enough time with all the capital
customers but they they definitely stand
out as being happier customers we're
gonna unpack quite a lot of what you
just said there I I do want to start
more around you and your leadership
actually Ryan and it's something that I
want to start with which is quality
versus efficiency can you talk to me
about how you view the two and the
relationship between quality and
efficiency yeah you know I don't know if
this is true for company in the world
but it is it is the absolute truth in
logistics is that almost all
inefficiency comes from bad quality Bri
prac what is bad quality mean something
was late it was shipped to the wrong
address you Ed the wrong Customs
classification code or you cleared it
through customs when it should have
traveled through that country without
clearing customs onto the next country
call that an in bond shipment a mistake
like that will cost you all your
efficiency gains for the month you know
one mistake because it takes weeks to
unwind things and the penalties and and
you can't you can never quantify the
lack of loss of trust that a mistake
like that will will bring to your
customer it's very ironic that the more
a company and Logistics focuses on
efficiency the less efficient efficient
they'll get and the more they focus on
quality the lower their cost will be the
the more efficient they'll be uh it's
not it's counterintuitive it's not
obvious at all although if you read a
lot of literature of um you know the
Great American Business philosophers we
Deming and he's known as like the
grandfather of quality or something like
that and you read his stuff you're like
yeah none of this is surprising that's
been known it's like the heart of the
Toyota production system uh it's a heart
of like a lot of different philosophies
on how to drive quality the goal is my
favorite sort of Business book and it's
all about theory of constraints and
driving um driving quality so that you
don't have to do rework and eliminate
waste as you go um and so yeah that's
like our Obsession right now is on time
performance accurate Milestone data
making sure the invoice what we charge
you is very close to what we originally
quoted you ideally matching it although
things happen in the world yeah so
that's our Obsession right now is
driving quality Ryan do you think that
the best CEOs are the best resource
allocators it's commonly said as a kind
of throwaway phrase do you think the
best CEOs are the best resource
allocators I think there's just so many
different kinds of CEOs out there if you
look like over the long run 50y year
period or something the the CEOs who
have the best returns in the stock
market have been really good at resource
allocation meaning meaning they they
really understand when their stock is uh
overvalued are undervalued and if it's
undervalued they buy their own stock if
it's overvalued they issue stock and buy
other companies and they have they're
very in tune with how to buy and sell in
the public markets other companies doing
m&a or being very smart and that's a
that's a that's a pure form of resource
allocation within a public company and a
private company that's way less
important I think uh in private company
it's much more yeah I guess you can say
resource allocation across teams and
okay do I want to put head count into
this or that I don't think that's the
most important thing in private
companies though it's usually like do
you have a great vision can you attract
the best talent uh and can you just like
execute can you actually deliver results
against your vision I don't I don't know
if that's really resource allocations so
it's probably different public versus
private I think you learn a lot from
wins and losses right when you look at
your resource allocation decisions the
Investments that you've deliberately
chosen to make what have been your best
resource allocation decision and what's
been your worst and what were the
takeaways when you reflect on them I
know if it's part of resource
allocations we we've raised uh we've
raised Capital twice for we did very
large rounds of capital at what felt
like the peak of a bull market and
wanted to put money in the bank so that
we can ride out and have a fortres
balance sheet to ride out any storm that
comes so we did that the first time uh
was in 2019 and it turned out the bull
market continued uh and you know you
can't predict these things but we raised
a billion dollars in 2019 and then in
2022 we raised $984 million that turned
out to be true like that we were kind of
at the peak of the bull market and that
balance sheet serves us very well today
that we have a billion dollars in cash
and we're in a place to execute and not
be too concerned overly concerned about
the the you know there's a recession and
Freight right now and capital markets
for tech companies have come down quite
a bit since then and we have a fortress
balance sheet to protect us and insulate
us from those problems but you call that
resource allocation I sort of do because
you're now in a place to protect the
company and have cash that you can
continue to allocate through the cycle
we've done a limited amount of m&a we
apply we acquire shopy Logistics um I'm
very very proud of that deal I think
it's incredibly powerful to now be able
to go end to end all the way from
Factory to Consumer stores and we
deliver into retail stores like do
distribution to other Amazon other
marketplaces like Amazon FBA or Walmart
fulfillment service but also Costco
Target Macy's Nordstrom we can we can
deliver to retail stores now and so
being able to really go all the way end
to end we're the only platform in the
world that does that seamlessly in one
tech place it's a little too early to
say if that's like great resource
allocation or not I think it I think
we'll look back in a few years and say
that was incredible before we discuss
the the flip side can I ask a blank
question you feel the weight of the
valuations raised at obviously it was a
bull market and prices were high do you
feel the waste of L round price I no I
don't I think um because the reason is
i' I've told my team after every round
that we done this is not our evaluation
this is a moment in time a group of
people with a view of the future and you
know because the value of any company at
any time is the well it's the net
present value of the future cash flows
discounted by some you know risk rate of
whether or not that's going to come true
and what you know what the best
opportunity cost is and the future is
inherently uncertain we have no idea
what the future is going to look like
everybody has their own View and so our
valuation is sort of like you take all
the probable possible Futures out there
you assign a probability outcome each of
them and you collapse that distribution
curve down and you get a you get a price
you know another way to say that is like
hey there's when we were worth a when we
are valuation was marked at8 billion you
could say well we're never worth we I I
literally told our team this the next
day we're not worth $8 billion there's a
some probability chance that we're worth
we're going to be worth 800 billion and
some chance we're going to be worth 80
and some chance we'll be worth nothing I
mean and our job is as here as employees
is not to sit here and think about our
valuation and hope that it goes up it's
to go make it more certain that those
probabilities that we want come true and
so you know it doesn't matter what the
current price is of the stock like we
just got to go execute and make the more
the the outcome we like more which is
being worth 800 billion someday I mean
we're a platform for Global Logistics
like global trade is 47% of GDP that's a
big number you know if you can be the
platform for that you can be worth
trillions of dollars so like who cares
what our valuation is right now
according to some Outsider who doesn't
even own flexport stock and writing an
analyst opinion on it like that is not
how we're going to run this business
when you when you put on the Ambassador
hat you're like big time
tick um on the flip side what was the
worst resource allocation decision what
was a mistake that you allocated
resources to that you shouldn't and how
did that change your perspective oh you
know like Flex SP is over over the last
decade Capital raising came easy to
flexport I mean had zero interest rate
flexport's a really good bet we get we
raise a lot of money I think that that
money in I've never seen a company and
I've tried this and I've raised as much
money as almost anybody I've never seen
a company successfully raise a bunch of
money and not start spending it in ways
that don't that aren't actually very
smart it's the biggest risk to raising
too much money is you just like lose
discipline and you start spending money
this was true um by the way from day one
we raised a $20 million series a the
time it seemed like a ton of money the
next day or like within a week we had a
conference coming up like a where we
were exhibiting at a trade show or
something and I immediately purchased a
shipping container and transformed it
into a booth and spent like 50,000 bucks
on this thing and like I don't know if
that was a good or bad decision but like
I definitely wouldn't have made it two
weeks prior when we didn't have the 20
million bucks in the bank it's like the
money wants to spend itself and so
that's the ultimate risk and you can sit
here and go we're not going to spend it
we're going to pretend we didn't raise
it but you would be as a Founder the
first person ever to to succeed in that
um now I think my advice would be to a
Founder who's raising a lot of money and
my advice to my former self would be
like if you raise a lot of money you
should immediately the next day do a
hiring freeze and don't hire anybody for
90 days and go look money's not going to
solve our problems we're going to solve
our problems and so over hiring in
general has been our biggest mistake and
and then we've had to let people go
we've done layoffs and it's it's
terrible for the culture and so yeah
that's definitely the worst Capital
allocation is over hiring and we hire
great people too by the way it's just
like we couldn't afford we didn't have
the cost discipline in place and a lot
of that's because we raised money too
easily I always say like actually get a
separate bank account put it in a
separate bank account forget that you
have that bank account and I have this
fight with Parker Conrad always online I
tweet it and he just like goes for me I
love Parker so I'm saying that lovingly
but he's like too much money never
killed a company it's a VC ISM you know
the more money great and I'm like no it
encourages ill discipline and you
imprudent spending well look I I
actually agree with Parker but I can
play both sides of I can be Nuance
because I do think I do think look I
raised a lot of money I think that was a
success I said it was the best example
of capital alligation I did was raise a
lot of money at the peak however it does
lead to bad habits uh and and both these
things can be true at the same time uh
and and it you know imposing that
discipline is totally possible but you
have to be living in reality looking p&l
every day looking at your team looking
at the salaries of your team I think a
lot of what I've done that was a mistake
was like when you were do performance
reviews you can't just do a performance
review without also looking at the
team's salary uh with the team member
salary we let go of a lot of amazing
people a few weeks ago we we we let go
of about half of our engineering team we
now we grew our engineering team this
year from 450 software uh team members
product and engineering team members to
1300 it was super aggressive and then we
reigned it back in when I came back as
CEO like that that was LED under the
prior CEO when I came back in I reigned
it in so now we have about 650 people
which is more than we've ever had so
again that was a mistake we over hired
but we let go of a lot of great people
including some people I would love to
keep on the team but at the salary
levels that they were making and that's
our fault we overpaid people but we had
to let we had to let good people go I
feel terrible about it yeah yeah you
feel the weight of responsibility when
you over High cuz it's one of those
tough ones where like it's on you as the
employer yeah oh of course and that's me
even though I was not the CEO I was the
chairman of the board I approved the
hiring plans um and so yeah we screwed
up on that I think we have a lot of cash
you know we have a billion dollars in
cash we have um a product road map that
we think can really transform the way
global trade is done in Global Logistics
and we were in a hurry to execute
against that road map and we wanted to
go build it all and we weren't living
enough in reality of like okay it's fine
we're the leaders in technology and
Freight foring by far like if you look
at the freight forwarding companies in
the world flx sp's now the third largest
of the American companies and top 10
globally and if you look at the top 100
providers of Global Freight forwarding
Services Customs Brokerage and Freight
forwarding we the only one founded after
the web browser was invented in '94 like
we compete against companies that were
literally founded in the
1800s when you think about it that they
know how to somewhere in that building
they knew how to ship Freight using
Morse code because the telephone hadn't
even been invented less the internet I'm
not worried that we won't be the leader
in technology and it's okay if it takes
us a couple more years to build out
everything on the road map and I think
that was a mistake we were like trying
to deliver everything in one year and we
don't need to have that pressure it's
like hey just sequence things build the
quality do it right and and we'll get
there well there's another common Trope
which is like speed is the single
biggest determinant of success in
startups and Company building do you
believe that's true or given what you
just said is speed actually not as
important as people maybe suggest oh
well I think uh you have to be very
careful with your definitions here
because I don't think speed is the most
important thing I think it's velocity
and if you remember your physics
velocity has a vector it's speed in the
right direction if you're going the
wrong direction you're this is terrible
and so sometimes the highest velocity
thing you can do is stop and do and go
nowhere because if you're if your Vel if
your speed in the wrong direction that's
negative velocity and that's really bad
um and so that's the key is being agile
being able to change direction because
the world's chaotic the world's going to
especially in logistics we've seen crazy
Stu Co and uh you've had bankruptcies of
shipping carriers and then you had them
make hundreds of billions of dollars
five years later you've had terrorists
uh we're seeing everything and so you
have to be very Nimble as the world
changes to be able to change direction
without losing speed that's a very hard
thing to do so do you know when you're
going in the wrong direction do you know
early is it apparent not always um I
think that's that's like that's the art
of leadership I suppose you know I
really like bezos's concept here of like
the one-way door and the two-way door
and being being able to move very very
fast as long as it's easy to change
direction and come back that often
that's the case and you should go really
really fast because it's F sometimes
it's a one-way door you can't come back
and so then you better be real careful
not it's okay to go the wrong direction
as long as you can change course and be
nimble right but if it's a one-way door
type uh type one decision then you got
it that those are decisions that need to
be made by seeing your people with a lot
of judgment to avoid mistakes uh
otherwise it's fine to go fast and make
mistakes like the only thing I think
with that is like so so few things are
oneway door like we were talking before
we were talking beforehand about you
know children and egg freezing which
will get taken out of this edited note
to take out otherwise I'm but like kids
are a oneway door but like so few is
actually a oneway door key highes not um
strategics in countries not products
not is really oneway doors well uh a one
spending money you can't get the money
back so they can get by Capital
alligation making sure you don't blow
the money so things that cost a lot of
money that's a one way door although we
found in logistics that uh it's I think
General Batton said it's it's not not
how high you climb it's how high you
bounce after you fall and so a lot of
our best customer relationships are
people that we royally screwed up with
five years ago but it's how do you
respond in that moment do I does the CEO
give them a call and apologize and make
things right do you take care of them do
you do you pay the extra money you know
do that's that's ultimately a value
system because your values don't really
count unless you're willing to give up
money for it otherwise it's just word on
the wall if you don't show up and you
don't really handle things well that
could be a oneway door I mean you can I
have people that I don't interact with
anymore and I won't do business with
because that of the way they behave
there's there oneway doors out there but
I agree with you in general like most
things are two-way doors I'm glad after
seven years you forgave me Ryan yeah
it's a thrill to be
back um now I I want to ask I I spoke to
so many of your friends and they all of
them literally said I had to ask you
about Roman Empire your lessons yeah and
like how you think about like Roman
Empire and its actual like relationship
to culture and cult followings and how
it impact Valley culture I'm to be
honest I'm more of a fan of the uh the
ancient Greeks and the ancient Egyptians
than the Romans but uh but I do like
ancient history how does ancient history
then impact your thinking on company
building uh I don't know if it does I
think it's more of a hobby to be honest
I really enjoy uh the work of one author
in particular his name is Will Durant
will and arel Durant actually wife team
um although Will wrote the first five
books there's 11 books in the series
they're like about thousand pages each
and it's the whole history of
civilization so I basically read those
books I read I read like one of his
books and then someone else every year
and I alternate back and forth so I've
read I've read the whole series like
four or five times so that's probably
why people think that I'm ask me about
Rome I was probably on a Rome kick
during some conversation but I'm not I'm
not exclusive on Rome by any means and
um the reason I like him is that what he
does is it's been synthesis it's a type
of History where you study all all
aspects not just military or political
but art culture uh science religion
manners morals fashion everything that
we know about about a civilization as an
interconnected web uh and and it's I
think it's actually a really interesting
way to think about uh companies because
we are very cross fun if you're only
focused on product or engineering or
sales or one aspect of a company you're
really going to miss the collected hole
of how these things that are connect I
think that that that's a very in so it's
not so much about the history it's about
the way of writing history that I find
really relevant for companies is that if
you can when you write your for example
your uh annual plans of what is a team
going to build sometimes you have to
duplicate you have to write the same
thing twice but I want to see what is
the finance team doing and what is the
sales teams doing and do these actually
Interlink and is the tech team building
the right product to support both of
those things and vice versa right are
they selling the product that the tech
team's building it it takes extra work
to go through and make sure all this
stuff in links but it's quite contrary
by the way to an Amazon mindset which I
also respect don't get me wrong but in
the Amazon world you sort of like have a
business unit that just goes hard and
doesn't have to pay attention to all the
other business units and I actually far
prefer the the cross functional
collaboration and teams coming together
and reading each other's plans uh and
making the plans really transparent to
as many people as possible you if you
don't have that synthesis then how are
you going to know that you're especially
in our business where it's an end to-
end Logistics offering it's very
difficult to do that in a world where
people are just thinking about one leg
of a shipment or one Department in a
company what have been the biggest
lessons for you in where those
interlinkages break where the cross
functions don't work well I I can't
speak to every every kind of company
there's so many unique businesses out
there but but it is you know in our
business it's an end to end offering so
what the way that FX for works is
companies come onto our platform they
Place orders to their factories their
flexport buy purchase orders buying
goods those factories become users the
average importer of goods is onboarding
18 factories and then those factories
become users they Place bookings they
say okay the car goes ready on this date
uh we send a truck out there and across
100 over 100 countries send a truck pick
it up export clear it out of that
country put it on a ship so we've got to
have contracts all the ocean carriers
and Airlines across the world clear it
your Customs truck picks it up at the
airport or the port either direct
delivers it directly to the customer
puts it on a sometimes we put it on a
train actually and skip the truck
sometimes we do a barge in Europe up a
lot of barge shipping in China too and
go up the Ryan River uh sometimes we'll
bring it to a warehouse unload the
container put it on a dry van on a
regular truck deliver it bring it to
another Warehouse we then deconsolidate
it and ship it to customer stores or
into retail stores so it's an incredible
amount of complexity as you can imagine
I haven't even mentioned there's a bank
that's financing that transaction where
it's Flex work capital uh there's a
someone doing the payments you know the
wire transfer there's an insurance
company doing cargo Insurance uh and
then there's returns there it's a it's a
very complex Network so if you try to
run this where all each leg is just only
thinking about themselves in isolation
you're very likely to screw something up
uh because a mistake a change in China
at the origin or in Vietnam and a delay
there I've got to replan everything
Downstream because you know the trucks
not going to be the the truck now has to
be rescheduled a week later uh three
weeks later silos are incredibly
dangerous in logistics and yet there's
no possible or chart that could solve
this people work in simpler businesses
they want they they they try to solve
these problems with an org design that
says okay everybody you know these
people report to me but the only person
only this one person can have everybody
in that Network that I describe
reporting to them and then they become a
bottleneck now the Amazon's done a good
job with the API memo beos is trying to
solve this with it everybody should
communicate with apis and we don't want
to have any meetings that's correct we
developing that direction but in the
meantime before you have everything
being API of everything of your team
talking to everybody by apis you just
have to sit down and collaborate you
have to read each other's plans you have
to line up make sure that you know the
handoffs are seamless that each team
because the way we're organized is each
of those legs as a team but they got to
pay attention to what's upstream and
downstream of them Ryan how many direct
reports do you have uh right now I have
15 is that not too many uh for our
business it's the best way I've had I've
had as few as six uh it turned out much
better to have more and I get more
collaboration but I don't want have a 15
person meeting unless I just need to
tell everybody something we don't make
decisions with all 15 people in the room
it's not like we sit down and you know
because if you did everybody would I
think I did the math on this and
everyone talk for five minutes or
something four minutes that's not a very
useful meeting if everybody talked
equally which obviously they wouldn't
but um no so we what we do instead is we
grab uh four five six people for
whatever the topic is that we need and
we'll go deep and not just those six
people who report to me but some usually
uh layer down from the technology or
someone from the front lines who
understands the issue and that's where
we you know we make decisions in in
small groups like that not not with all
15 people speaking of making those
decisions in small groups culture is so
important for it that people feel able
to talk to you that they're not scared
to that they can discuss the hardest
things I've been bad actually at culture
building being young I kind of always
thought friendship was the way to build
companies which is the worst thing ever
what have been your biggest mistakes on
culture um yeah I think trying to be
popular is a big mistake um you have to
do what's right not what's popular in
the company and sometimes you do things
that are unpopular but if it's the right
thing to do you got to do it the goal of
a culture is to drive velocity we're
talking about velocity before speed in
the right direction you gota have a
great mission to do that you gota have a
great mission of purpose why are we here
uh you know FX Sports mission is to make
Global Commerce so easy there will be
more of it like I think that's inspiring
like let's increase GDP for the world
let's help people create opportunity and
get richer help our customers solve
problems like this is inspiring it's fun
um we get to learn a lot too like
Logistics is you're kind of a backstage
PA of the world economy what's happening
in all the world's companies how are
they run help them with their problems
so having a sense of purpose so you
actually know we're all rooll in the
same direction absolutely crucial for a
good culture it's like sounds cliche but
you can't do enough of it two is you got
to have trust which means people doing
what they say not talking crap behind
each other's back putting the issues on
the table a culture where you're not
going to get scorched because you where
you criticize somebody for example one
thing I do for this is that we have an
open channel in our slack instance where
anybody can ask the leadership team a
question and I mean I praise people who
ask hard questions who criticize us I
mean I think that's also I prefer I like
courageous people uh and I think that
builds Tres what's been the hardest
question oh we got we get questions a
lot of questions about um you know we
laid people people off so you obviously
going to get a lot of tough questions
when you do something like that around
benefits and salaries and you think of
this thing or we really reduce the size
of this team does that mean you don't
value this team things like that are
tough questions though but I respect
that courage imagine being small small
as Rob Junior person in a company not
have not been around very long and
challenging This Global CEO publicly in
front of everybody that's awesome like
that's courageous so much better there's
this Anonymous social network it's like
the terrible all the cowards go there
and just talk trash like you're
obviously a coward if you're allowed to
talk in public and ask the open question
but you're too cowardly to do it you
post on the anonymous social networks I
think that builds trust I think having
things like that where you can just
answer questions I'm not afraid of any
question I don't always have the best
answer well I'm not afraid of it I live
in public and be authentic uh the only
way I know how to do it so a sense of
purpose the sense of trust um I think um
using intuition is really important for
culture like it can't be all data data
data is overrated in my opinion data is
valuable but data's too slow and often
it's inaccurate and most humans are not
actually using data the way they pretend
to use data most people know what they
want to do and then they use data to
justify what they were going to do
anyways uh and you can always find some
data to back up your case if you're
certain I respect that I think people
who have good judgment can make
decisions move fast data is also very
slow you know it takes a long time to
get the data you want and you often need
to move faster than that and data has
one major drawback which is that all
data comes from the same place which is
the past and like if the future looks
different from the past your data is
completely useless people who use
intuition you got to blend data I'm not
saying data is bad like a big part of
what we do is provide better data about
Supply chains but you got to have eye
judgment people interpreting data saying
is this actually right I mean the number
of times I've been shown some data and
then be like but what about this and
like I you know instantly I can debug
reports on data so so using intuition is
key um a culture of learning is really
key like honoring mistakes not not not
scorching people who make a mistake and
constantly trying to learn and get
better these are like all really
important aspects to building a high
velocity culture where people can you
know build trust and go fast and execute
on on that mission a lot of what you
just said is predicated on actually
having the right people on board as well
you know they have to want to learn they
have to bluntly be honest and genuine
people again have made many hiring
mistakes what are some of the biggest
hiring lessons you have that you wish
You' known when you started or in the
earlier years don't hire outside people
I rather much don't hire senior
Executives I think in almost all I'm not
looked at of blanker rule we've hired a
lot of great senior Executives at
flexport over the years and and a lot of
them are doing amazing work for us but
it's so much higher risk than promoting
from within um and and so much better
you get to know people you get to really
get bought in that they believe deeply
in your mission they built credibility
and respect and stretch people and
promote people from within I think that
I didn't do enough with that over the
years I think uh trying to pursue in
blind pursuit of growth and and and
hitting our goals and being Global and
taking over the world and bringing our
vision to life you need help and you
turn externally instead of going hey I'm
I've actually got amazing people at
flexb like we have X Flex War people who
are in key roles like way more senior at
amazing comp companes than than they
were doing at flexport and we didn't
promote them and they left them do
better things somewhere else and like so
I I I think uh spending more time with
your customers and more time in the
presence of your people and more time
with the front lines so you can identif
like the key job of leadership is
identifying Talent within your company
certainly yes but like it's so much
better if you can get internal folks and
promote them the problem is like
companies are in a hurry you know and we
want to achieve things really fast and
it's kind of a shortcut to go higher
Senor people from outside how do you
know when a stretch is a stretch too far
oh you got to try it I mean you know I
don't know it's a tragedy it is a
tragedy because when that happens that
people tend to lead the company instead
and I think agree culture should be able
to go hey you know what like if you
could really do this the right way we
haven't figured this out but I would
love to is like hey we shum didn't work
out let's bring them back to a role that
that matters but Egos and compensation
and other factors being what they are it
tends to be when you stretch people too
far they lead the company and that and
that stinks because uh we've lost a lot
of great talent and if I just think
about all the great people have left
flexport over the years if they were
still here we'd be like 10 times better
company if you're out there come back
we'd love to have you my honest
reflection on people management is like
being CEO is the worst thing ever
because great people you permanently wor
will be leaving because they're so good
average people you permanently worry
that they're not good enough and bad
people you permanently worry that you
should have got rid of them last week do
you agree with that I think it's a it's
an incredible job being the CEO of a
company if you believe in the mission
and you love what you're doing you know
and you're executing against the vision
it's an incredible job uh but it's not a
easy job and it's not necessarily flaw I
mean it's people look from the outside
and think like I'll be an entrepreneur
I'll be the CEO and like it's it's
really tough man I mean it is not an
easy thing to do for for the reasons
that you said and and many others but he
that's that's why you know that's why we
do it because we want we believe deeply
in what we're trying to achieve and I I
I don't know I'm kind of unemployable I
don't want to work for somebody else I
want to go build stuff your brother told
me you unemployable uh no your your your
wife though asked the question you said
there about kind of the The Mirage of
Entrepreneurship your wife said what's
the biggest misconception people have of
flax sport today versus what it is
really uh well there's been a lot of you
know black sports has been in the news a
while lately um we had CEO trend I the
demand for Scandal and drama is way
higher than the supply in this world and
the media has been really
sensationalizing some stuff there was a
story about flexport that I will not
Point people to because I don't want to
give it any attention because it was
other crap but it was a whole article
flport delivered 33 million packages to
Consumers homes on that's what we're on
track to do this year then one package
got lost and they wrote this all this
mainstream media publication wrote an
entire story where the first four
paragraphs are about a lady who pack I
feel bad for her I'm sorry like we lost
the package we genuinely we screwed that
up we reimburse her in full but like one
out of 33 million I mean that is like
you know this is people trying to
sensationalize and stir up drama or like
that same article clean that one of our
biggest customers was really unhappy
with us literally the customer went on
the record telling them that's not true
we were very happy with flexp and they
didn't publish that they they wrote two
they wrote that we have sources saying
that they're not happy but like the for
out the company told you that that's not
true so the media wants to drive these
narratives about Blackport as if we're a
mess or something when in fact if you
come hang out with us or you're one of
our customers you know like we are high
energy our culture is stronger than it's
ever been we're really well Finance we
have almost a billion dollars in cash
we're going to be profitable next year
but like if you read an article about
flexware today it would be like oh this
company's in a difficult position or
something so I don't know I part why I
want to come on podcast and like tell
the story directly because the media
once you and you know I've talk to these
people and told my story and then they
just don't publish any of that they
publish sensationalist stuff so you said
it earlier you said you can use data for
whatever your end is and so if there's
any data that suggests it's not in line
with your story well that didn't get
that data exactly exactly exactly and by
way the media is pretty good to fight
over years I'm not like I'm not a huge
critic of the media but in the current
moment people are liking to tell the
sensation that's what drives clicks or
whatever metric they're looking for but
over the years the media has been good
do I'm like been part of our success is
get the story out and attract customers
and talent so I think we'll get back
there we just got to go do a good job I
I totally get you and agree it does seem
like a harsh piece speaking of kind of
like in the media the world is a more
nerve-wracking place than ever in many
ways I spoke to Brian singerman before
this and he said there's nothing he
loves more than talking to you about
bluntly the state of the world and how
you see kind of macro geopolitics today
and I'd love to ask when you think about
kind of geopolitical macro how do you
think the future for trade with China
well China is a very unique
manufacturing capability that you can't
replace easily you know people will love
to say the the United States government
is doing their best with imposing
tariffs on on Imports uh coming from
China companies with simple products
like think apparel Etc are moving out
away from China want to avoid the duty
but Chinese uh the Chinese economy's
done so well that their labor prices
have gone way out you know the average
hourly wage in Mexico is now cheaper
than in China so if you're just looking
for cheap labor and that's great for
China right like good for them like
they're making more money as you know
their population so China is no longer
the cheapest manufacturing side in the
world but it's the best manufacturing
like they're the highest quality highest
competency in manufacturing so if you're
doing Electronics you're doing anything
sophisticated or not anything but a lot
of the really sophisticated forms of
manufacturing China's the best place to
buy things um so I don't think that's
going to go away I think people will
always be shifting away from higher
labor cost to cheaper labor costs and
tariffs they're going to do what they
can to optimize against
tariffs I think in general there's
Global it's we're in an interesting
moment right now where globalization is
in question like whether or not we're
going to continue to do trade globally
or will we just produce everything
domestically or there going to be more
boundaries more nationalism uh more
maybe regional trade and that's that's
we're at a moment in time where that
looks like a big interesting debate but
I would point to the long you know
talking about history that global trade
has grown 4% annually uh since the
Mongol invasions in around 1200
I mean it looks you know 4% doesn't
sound like much but when you put 4% on
an 800e curve it's a phenomenal hockey
stick like Silicon Valley's never seen
uh and I would predict that that'll
continue because it's innate in the
human species with specialization and
trade is like one of the main things
that separates us from the Animal
Kingdom Adam Smith wrote this I've never
seen a dog trade a bone with another dog
we see animals exhibiting all kinds of
other behaviors language and Tool use
and other stuff but trade is not
something that they do and trade is
fundamentally with the building block of
civilization because it allows
specialization it allows gains it allows
wealth creation so humans want to trade
with each other now governments will try
to stop things there will be special
interest that may want to block trade
but left to their own devices humans
will trade more and more and more uh and
so I I would predict that that's what's
going to happen because we always find a
way they will trade more and more and
more I'm just really intrigued do you
think that will be globalized trade or
nationalized trade I think it'll be
globalized trade I think uh first of all
the the ship is an incredibly efficient
way of moving things around the world
far more efficient than any other you
know landbased transport in fact though
you know I I I I've had this blog post
that I want to write about how Fiji
Water is the most environmentally
friendly water it gets criticized all
the time you because ocean Freight is so
carbon neutral that by getting it and
shipping it from Fiji to the west coast
of the United States emits way less
carbon than running a truck from the
Rocky Mountains to the West Coast you
know there there's a lot of reasons and
ocean parate is cheap it's Rel
the fact that you can ship a TV across
the world for a few dollars is just a
remarkable feat of engineering and human
Ingenuity now war is a big risk I have
no no way to understand the risk of of
of war and and what that can do to trade
civilization and therefore trade depends
on peace we take it for granted we've
lived in this great period of Peace for
most of our lives at least in the United
States in the Western World the wars
that have exist have been largely
removed from us and the daily impact
that but if that changes yeah of course
trade is at risk and so we take there's
a lot of black swans that can happen but
even Wars that you know World War II
seemed like the most catastrophic thing
that could ever happen and if you look
at the graph of GDP or trade you barely
notice the blip or if you look at a long
R to what extent is planning even
valuable in your business when you have
coid when you have Ukraine when you have
you Global place that just throw the
world into chaos I think it was e said
planning is invaluable the plan the
plans are useless but the exercise of
doing planning is incredibly valuable to
think strategically to take a moment
back and step back and think about what
you're doing and why you're doing it um
that's a very valuable exercise where
you have to be very adaptable when the
world changes and probably that's a a
strength and a weakness of mine I'm very
good at changing direction probably
change direction too easily also and so
having some firm view of where you're
going is really important can I weird
one before we just discuss parenting
which I do have to discuss because I
think it's fascinating helpful for me
question would you belong China China
have so many problems from you know
population decline manufacturing decline
reversion away from urbanization would
you be long China or short yeah know
it's hard for me to do macro type stuff
like that I think that Chinese China has
a few advantages that we take that we
don't have Chinese China believes in
China Chinese people believe in China
half of Americans hate hate America I
think that's a huge advantage to have as
a civilization to believe that what
you're doing is that you're part of
something that's bigger than yourself
and try to support your country you know
we lack that these days in America um
and that's a huge advantage to have
they're incredibly industrious people
they're working they are hungry they
want success they work six days a week I
a lot of people don't realize I Liv in
China for two years they work satour
days we don't work SST you know that's a
bit extreme but most Chinese people work
six days a week what how much more
productive would you be work at extra
20% you know they're industrious they're
hardw working they're intelligent they
have a lot going for them their
leadership is incredibly smart they have
some demographic challenges that are
beyond my scope to understand because
you know people are like the
population's declining not China is not
the worst in this by any means there's
uh there's Western countries Italy and
Korea uh other countries that are
declining faster but I always think like
well but isn't it better if you have to
your people to share the resources I
don't know I don't know how to think
about that they still have way more
people than we do in the United States
I'm not like a macro investor by any
means I always I I did study a lot of
Economics I always found macroeconomics
to be impossible I think people who
pretend they understand it are probably
wrong I don't make big you know
civilization level predictions like that
but I I lived in China for a few years I
have immense respect for Chinese culture
Chinese people Chinese food uh there's
there's a lot to love about China two
interest rates hit double digits do you
think some people suggest we're just at
the start some people suggest they won't
go higher we'll see easing why do you
say oh I'm not I'm not the right guy to
ask about interest rates I don't know
man it's like if they do the United
States government's GNA be a lot of
trouble we can't pay our debt of 10%
interest they have to keep printing
money and then you have an inflationary
cycle which then makes interest rates go
even higher so seems pretty ugly okay
before we move into a quick fight I'm
going to ask something that you do have
direct experience and you will be able
to lend some wisdom parenting okay you
are a CEO of a you know a thousand plus
how how many people work at flight sport
now 2500
2500 can you tell me how do you still be
a great father and be CEO of a 2500
person company what do you know now that
you wish you'd known when you had kids
well love is you know when most value so
I love my children so much that I want
to get home and make sure I get time to
spend time with them before bedtime and
hang out with them every night and see
in the morning too so I've had a
three-year-old and a one-year-old U my
especially my older daughter my
one-year-old I like you know hasn't
started learning how to talk or anything
yeah but my three-year-old is like this
little bow of energy so I love playing
with her and I make time for that and um
yeah then I work more in the evenings
after she goes to bed and I get up early
and work and that's fine I mean I think
I can work I work as hard now as I ever
worked in my life and I just have to
deprioritize some other stuff did having
kids change you it's yeah it's like a
chemical wash that flows over your whole
body and filling you with love and
respect for the universe and like
understanding also a great way to
understand your own parents your
relationship with them like remember
like all the stuff that they went
through that I'd never even thought
about but as I go through it I'm like oh
my goodness they had to deal with this
like I must have been a little brat like
think man they taught me in flashbacks
you know like oh my God I remember
reading Curious George as a kid and now
reading it to my daughter or yeah all
the different a lot of flashbacks and a
lot of like thinking back on my
reflecting on my own childhood that's
really really really profound can I ask
you you know you have CEO hat you have
father hat you have husband hat the
husband had as well you got to keep up
how do you retain romance and retain
prioritization of relationship when you
managing 2500 people reading Curious
George holding one-year-old well I had
the greatest wife in the world my wife
is uh kind of the chief of staff of my
life H she's been incredible advisor for
me on all things and by the way I was
criticizing the media before but my
wife's a former reporter so I'm like
well in tune with how the media works
and uh she's a great like communications
director helping them you know
understand how to behave how to get the
media like well I was Billy flexo well
before I met her and she's always known
that flexo's my baby and that you know
serious priority for me and that I'm
very fortunate to find a woman who want
like knew that and signed up for it and
wants to help me in every way and I I
don't know I never take it for granted
does she have a
sister a wonderful sister married with
married with kids that bit gets taken
out too
guys uh final one Ryme before we do a
quick fire you're a very secure dude
you're just very kind of content and
happy in yourself when I speak to you
which is quite rare considering the the
CEOs that I speak to interesting what's
your biggest insecurity in leadership sh
today no I did feel very secure you know
part of it is um I uh I mentioned I
lived in China for a few years I was
super broke making no money and I was
living really well it was like the best
couple years of my life at that time in
a real sense of adventure and fun this
was H 17 years 17 or 18 years ago and uh
I realized I don't need a lot to succeed
and be happy like I was like I made
$177,000 one year and it was like one of
the best years of my life and I was
trying to make money by the way like oh
I don't even I was like trying to make
money and and I didn't make a lot of
money but I was very happy and I ate
well and I had friends and that's given
me a lot of C you know uh there's a lot
of me to take risk in my career and I've
started multiple successful companies
not just wxport but import genius
room.com I started a lot of businesses
invested in you know over 100 companies
and done really well as an investor so I
I I like no matter what happens I'll be
fine because I can be poor and happy
it's not about making money and so it's
like gives me a sense of security that
I'll be fine my wife my wife's not going
to leave me if we if we lose money we'll
do it together it'll be fine like so
does money make you happy well money can
money can solve problems and problems
can make you unhappy so yeah know money
can definitely contribute to happiness
if it can get if it can make problems go
away there's definitely a the place
where you know you money it's very funny
because humans are
mimetic now we copy each other we want
more and so you have to be very careful
of Who Your Role Models are and who you
imitate and be careful not to hang out
with people who have way more money than
you because you'll you'll aspire to do
things that you can't afford uh spend
money on stuff that won't actually make
you happy uh and so picking your role
models I think is one of the most and
and just your friends who you hang out
with one of the most important things uh
in life and yeah so make you know money
alone definitely is if that's all you're
after definitely a recipe for misery
that's that sounds cliche but it's true
but but but if if you know what you want
in life money will definitely help you
get there faster help you solve problems
and overcome obstacles and things like
this you mentioned your success
investing I spoke to Chad before and he
said literally right before and he asked
why do you love investing in Rebels or
people with Messy pass where something's
gone wrong in previous companies why do
you love that revenge is a really
powerful
motivator H in life you you want people
are motivated and driven and if someone
feels like they've been wronged there's
a couple benefits one they're going to
be incredibly driven to go solve that
you know to go have a comeback story two
is they're probably going to get pass
over by other
investors and that's that's what you
need like you need a contrarian opinion
and you have to be sure that they did
they were not like they didn't have a
moral ethical failing or if they did it
was something that minor that can be
forgiven you know it didn't really hurt
other people maybe they broke some rule
or something but like didn't there were
there weren't innocent people were not
harmed and then in that case if you can
get really comfortable with that and
they're really talented and other people
aren't willing to invest in them then
that's like a perfect storm for for
finding a great ch
and to Parker
Conrad I've got I've got I've got a list
of people that I've back that match that
profile and and Parker's one of them
yeah I think Parker was wrongly
scapegoated and run out of town at
benefits then he and he proved it by
going to build ripling into a business
that's much bigger and better than ref
renit ever was in the exact same space
I'm sure that the investors who did that
regret it and and uh and that's fine
Parker's a you know Parker's not that uh
doesn't care per se he just wants to go
execute has Angel Investing changed how
you are as a CEO yeah I probably it
helped me a lot to understand the the VC
world how it works probably help me with
some of our fundraising having a little
bit of perspective being on the other
side of the table understanding the game
more being being having you make friends
with other investors and can learn more
about the the VC world and how to how to
navigate it but I think net net no I
don't know if it has because it's also
taking up time I don't spend a lot of I
haven't spent a lot of time on it but
you know it's inevitably going to take
up some time I do it not not because
it's going to help me i s qu Angel
wesing a while ago basically I'll do it
a little bit here there if it's a friend
of mine or something but the reality is
any time spent away from flexport is
probably net negative for flexport I
mean I spent all my time on flexport if
I want to make flexport more successful
yeah life is not all about money or one
thing like I enjoy it I like learning I
like making friends with other Founders
I benefit from those relationships in
ways that are hard to predict and and
certainly 10 years ago 12 years ago when
I started Angel invest I I don't know
who knew what what I was doing I'm just
trying to get out here and have fun who
knows what VCS are doing not
them I'm just kidding we have thesis um
I'm going to do a quick firearm with you
so I want to start uh with a question
what concerns you most in the world
today when you look at the landscape
what concerns you War violence mob
violence uh the scapegoating of innocent
people and civilians being caught up in
the consequences yeah violence has
managing teams got harder with the rise
of woke Society managing teams is always
hard dealing with people who are not
focused on the company's Mission and
have their own missions that are
separate from a company's mission is
incredibly frustrating because there's a
million organizations in this world one
for every possible topic that you want
to drive and so finding people at
flexport who are focused on anything
other than Flex board successful at work
is like really really frustrating I
don't care what you want to focus on
outside of work at all what your
politics are what your cause is I think
that's awesome people should have
passion to do stuff but like that's not
what flexport's all about at the company
during the day like let's just talk
about our problems are hard enough we
got to make Global Commerce easy we got
to ship Cargo in every corner of the
world like this is hard enough we don't
we can't solve other people's challenges
outside of that remote work versus work
in office what are your thoughts there I
think remot work is very very difficult
to achieve a build a company culture I
think individuals can succeed I'm
incredibly productive working in my
house with there's no distraction I'm
incredibly productive individual
contributor but great things get
achieved by teams and teams don't really
form over video conferencing teams form
when you get together and you
collaborate and you have dialogue and
like you capture emotion body language
and contact and you jam and you stay up
late and it's not constrained by the 30
minutes of our video call like and that
just doesn't happen on remote work I'm
always one of your cool things learning
and when you and me do a presentation
together and we leave and get a coffee
afterwards I say dude I didn't like the
way that you presented that and I think
we could have done it differently in
this way that's a good idea you don't
have that spont of it man like I'm
walking around last we do and flexb is
struggling to get team members to come
back to work right now and I it wasn't
up you know it wasn't our Focus the last
few months but it's absolutely my focus
right now I'm I'm pretty frustrated by
people at flexb who don't want to come
into our offices I've just let them go
though we're we're starting to do that
and treat it as Performance Management
but we we're setting some new policies
around this in the in the coming weeks
but um it is a performance management
issue no there certain people for
exceptions and people who are
outstanding track records of performing
at home and in individual contributor
jobs but if you you want to be part of
if you want to I've told this team over
and over again if if you want to succeed
at flexp to get ahead you should come to
the office but even just last week I you
know I do a weekly town
at whatever office I'm in and just take
question I share what's on my mind uh
and then and then take questions from
the team um and after this town hall I
just hang out I had a guy come up to me
last week and just tell me hey you know
we have this opportunity to like get $2
million extra profit if we just do these
three things differently and I was like
who would you told about this he's like
nobody I'm like you know if we weren't
in the office together like would lose
$2 million right here let's go you know
and and and there's countless things
like this I'm just like getting people
in the office so that information can
flow freely and solve problems by the
way I think remote work can really work
but it's not going to benefit the people
who think like it's not going to be
people making
$250,000 a year hanging out in Jackson
Hole it's going to be Geniuses in the
developing world making you know who all
of a sudden there's an Arbitrage you can
find incredibly smart people all over
the planet and pay them one 100th or
111th whatever GDP is I mean look at the
GDP in the Philippines or something and
there's tons of geniuses over there and
so you could build a great company of
remote work but it's not going to be the
people who are advocating for remote
work inside these companies in the
United States like if I'm if I'm remote
why am I going to pay someone 250k in
San Francisco to be remote I I'll go
find someone in a cheap location so I I
don't think the people who are
advocating the strongest for remote work
actually know what they're advocating
for because if they're going to end up
in a world without a job because someone
they're now competing globally with
Geniuses all over the developing World
well if you change your mind on in the
last 12 months so one for me is like I
used to think firsttime Founders the
naivity the excitement was so important
actually [ __ ] that firsttime Founders
make so many stupid mistakes yes there
are the one in the millions and you have
to always be open to them but generally
speaking your net 80% good quality is
from serial entrepreneurs you know I had
this idea of this um go after these
business units that could work in
isolation and run really fast I think
that works for a lot of companies but as
I was describing that doesn't work in
fport we have to be an end to end we
have to deal with a little bit more
process uh process is probably the the
only the closest we have to a good word
for bureaucracy and there's a there's a
healthy amount of that that like
actually a lot of the true bureaucracy
in companies comes from um a lack of
process where people can't get anything
done and they don't know how it works
but putting in a little bit of process
and putting in more of an endtoend view
making people write the same thing twice
in two different teams planning
documents making people spend a little
bit more time in a meeting to understand
another team's objectives uh and not and
not have this Envision that like oh we
can just run really fast and ignore
everybody around us um that just doesn't
really work in our industry no I I I I
agree totally uh penultimate one
favorite warlord general or Emperor and
why definitely Napoleon the reason why
he's a very interesting mind first of
all uh you know won like 38 battles or
something 38 and one I forget his record
he's pretty pretty great General Rose
through the ranks came up through the
you know from the Grass Grass Roots came
up uh and Incredibly well read as well
like you know the egyptology is
basically created because Napoleon
wanted to invade Egypt uh to to cut off
the British Empire's access to India and
while he was there he brought all these
scientists and like you know that's
where we got the Rosetta Stone and the
understanding the decoupling the Hier GS
and then he wrote the law code the
Napoleonic Code which is basically the
law of the land and half of Europe today
all the way till now reorganize
everything yeah Napoleon is incredible
um there's a great book called the mind
of
Napoleon which is out of print it's like
$200 on eBay uh and it's just bull of
all it is is his quotes and he has a
quote on every subject it halfs of them
will Appo you in the modern world but I
find those to be the most fun and Al of
them are just like man this guy's an
actual genius but yet it has a nice
index in the back so you can look up any
subject and see what Napoleon thought
final one for you Ryan it's 2023 now
soon to be 2024 where are you in 2033
you still see a flexport and where's
flexport then definitely still see a
flexport and hopefully hopefully you
know the rest of my life uh can can stay
in the seat and health willing I love
this job I never I never wanted to leave
the job I just thought Dave would do a
better job than me uh and so I'm thr to
be back and you know executing 233 it's
man it's hard to predict with what's
happening with AI and everything else in
the world you know I don't I don't
really believe in predicting that far
out but one thing i' definitely want to
still be the CEO of flexb and do believe
global trade is here to stay and I think
actually what we're seeing is that Flex
is incredibly well positioned from an AI
to use AI to to implement it because
we've structured all the data at global
trade and have we're basically an
incumbent we're the third largest
provider of international forwarding
services in the United States so we have
incumbent level data but we have the
technology sack and the team that can
actually go and and Implement well one
of the things we've done is break a a
shipment when you ship a container from
door to door we've broke it in into
these discre tasks like a work item uh
that that get completed and we're
finding out that once you chunk it down
into something that simple that AI can
complete the tasks uh and so we're like
almost every couple weeks we're
implementing something that used to take
hours or days and take getting it down
to minutes I think we'll actually see
that AI we're going to be a huge
beneficiary of that labor in the
forwarding layer of global trade is 10%
of the cost of shipping things
internationally not the labor of the
people people driving the the cars the
trucks and the the ships and the planes
but the labor of the coordination layer
of ending off the documents I I often
joke it should be instead of freight
forwarding it should be Freight email
forwarding and so labor in that
forwarding layer is 10% of the cost of
shipping things and we're seeing that AI
can just do tons of these tasks and it
doesn't mean that you'll have less
people working at flexport by the way
because if you're really successful in
automating things you're going to need
more people you're going to have more
salesp people more Engineers you're
going to take over the world and and
employ even more people and that's a
real fallacy I mean that would be like
arguing that uh the invention of the
plow is going to eliminate jobs and we
should all just still be using you know
sticks to to dig holes to put seeds in
there grow our own food like that's an
argument as old as time and it's silly
like AI is going to create way more jobs
than it destroys but if you make
everything 10% cheaper we can have a
world of abundance so I think we're
that's that's where I like to see us in
2033 Ron loved doing this thank you for
my wide ranging conversation from
parenting to the future of trade and
China in between you are a start and
I've loved doing this my my my pleasure
Harry thanks for having me on and uh
talk to you soon
