welcome to the Logan Bartlett show on
this episode what you're going here's a
conversation I have with Dave aeria Dave
is the president and CEO of mongod DB
his third public company in this
conversation Dave and I discussed the
importance of hiring how to build an A+
culture the power of self-awareness and
Dave's take on artificial intelligence
as well as the New York Tech scene a
really fun conversation with one of the
absolute best operators in Tech as a
reminder we do not do advertising on the
show but we would like for you to
subscribe to to this on whatever channel
that you're listening to us on now
without further Ado here's
[Music]
Dave Dave thanks for doing this my
pleasure great to be here so I want to
start out in the midpoint of I guess
your professional career which is you
taking the job at mongod DB so
today it's a juggernaut I think everyone
knows it in the public markets but at
the time of you taking the job it wasn't
quite the Juggernaut it is today um what
did you see in the business at that time
that made you say hey this is a job that
I want to do well um first of all um
whenever you get a call for a CEO role
the first question I you know trained
myself to ask is what's wrong because no
one makes coo change with things are
going perfectly well and there were
number you know when you uh help help uh
you know have a successful outcome and
make investors money invariably you get
called for other roles and uh I
typically said no to a bunch of them
because PRS were quite endemic and the
companies that they had as me to
consider leading um I had been a VC for
a while for a couple years um and I had
looked at the Next Generation database
space and actually I looked at some
competing Investments to Mong B I ended
up passing those Investments because
when I did my diligence and again this
is a lot smaller scale mongodb still
seemed ahead of everyone else in terms
of developer me momentum mind share and
even commercial traction so when I got
the call I was intrigued and frankly one
of the questions I thought to myself
maybe I have a chance to invest in
mongodb and then when I met with with
the uh board and some members of the
executive team and the founders um what
I saw was uh that uh the product team
was in pretty good shape but I was
dismayed at uh their goto Market efforts
and was a little underwhelmed with the
leadership that was in place and I
thought to myself normally that would
scare people but I thought to myself if
this company is the head of the pack and
it's clearly got at best a B Team
imagine what would happen if an A Team
came in and so as I thought about that I
got more and more conviction and I
decided to take the role and uh that's
why I ended up here when you came in you
can't do it all at once you can't change
everything uh the second you come in
what were the first things that you went
about changing yeah that's a really good
point because anyone is trying to be a
change agent you can't um try and fix
everything all at once because you'll
just fail so you have to sequence things
in terms of what you need to fix Now
versus later so I took the approach of
starting with a customer and working
backwards into the core product um
because I Minds told me that the go to
market organization was not very good um
and kindly quite dysfunctional I
remember I hadn't actually started and I
got a call saying hey we have this
important meeting with a with a customer
a senior executive at Verizon and so I
said would you mind taking a you know a
call because they're trying to set you
up when you join to meet with this
customer so sure I happy to and so I'm
on the a call with this account team and
I could tell like uh the account team
didn't really the leader of the team
didn't really have all the facts so I've
starting to ask the rep more and more
specific questions and finally I asked
the rep so where are you based I said
maybe you know we can just meet for
coffee just to get a little more detail
just so I could have a one-onone
conversation with him and he said he's
based in Atlanta I said how can a rep
who's covering Verizon be based in
Atlanta so that was one of many examples
of of what I saw so was some of the
dysfunction at mang DB so I started
basically working from the customer
backwards and I said as I fix the go to
market and in particular sales
organization then the Fidelity of the
feedback I get on product will be that
much more clear then I'll know what
exactly I need to fix on the product
side so me methodically we basically
actually in my first 90 days we did a
big rip of a bunch of the salespeople
because they just weren't very good uh
and the track record also showed that uh
then I brought in a new cro I brought a
new CMO and then nine months later after
I started I brought a new CFO so the
core Atomic unit of the product was
mostly working well and you had to make
some changes along the way to make sure
the product had the right Fidelity yeah
so what we realized um and I and I knew
this going in was that the read
performance for mang was very good but
there were some limitations on write
performance or people weren't really
comfortable for using a MDB for right
intensive use cases and we had to fix
that and the product teams and
Engineering teams were working on
rewriting our storage engine but that
was a pretty big lift and in the middle
of this we got to meet the wire tiger
team which is a bunch of X Berkeley DB
guys who were very very
sophisticated um uh database Architects
and Engineers who had 20 plus years in
the industry and they had actually had a
storage engine that was optimized for
both read and write performance and so
we got very excited and we were actually
worried because some of the customers
included AWS and and a few other larger
you know uh organizations so we were
nervous that that technology and that
team could be acquired on under our feet
and so we moved pretty quickly the
company didn't have a tremendous amount
of cash you know even though it raised a
lot of capital burned through a lot of
capital so we also had to do a a
financing at the same time to fund that
acquisition uh but we were able to pull
that off and then the wire tiger storage
engine became the core storage engine
for the product which enabled us to
really broaden our use case and you know
be on the march to be a general purpose
platform so this was 2014 2014 2015 and
and so you're making plans to go public
around this time yet no when I came into
the business um the company had raised
was actually one of the first unicorns
when unicorns were actually rare and uh
but that um fund raise was underwritten
by a very aggressive operating plan it
was clear that the company had no chance
of hitting it which is why the board
decided to make a CO change and you
reset the plan when you came in yes and
for people again who are change agents
one of the things I also think is very
important for people to feel like
they're winning and the plan was just so
uh uh unattainable the worst thing you
can do is you know keep feeling like
you're failing so I went to the board
and said this plan is not realistic
obviously had the benefit of of not the
one who actually wrote the original plan
and I went back to them and said here's
what I think is a more realistic plan
the board in their wisdom agreed and
then once you have a new plan and then
you start beating your numbers all of a
sudden you know you start people feeling
like they have their Mojo suddenly they
feel like they're winners again and you
just start building morale and momentum
in the business so when you joined how
many people were there there there was
roughly about 350 people and then with
the rift we went down to about 250
people wow so so laid off about 100
people to come in and then slowly built
back up over the course of uh what how
long did it take you to get back to 350
people or so uh I don't remember exactly
but my philosophy in the first phase was
just we just had to get our go to market
execution sound we had to be able to you
know do what we say and say what we do
we had to be able to forecast the
business be able to then meet and exceed
those forecasts we had to rebuild how we
actually prosecuted deals you know
you've talked to John McMahon about the
whole you know sales process at blade
logic so I had a lot of experience in
that way the first cro was an XL logic
PTC guy named Carlos delatori who helped
me kind of really restructure and put
the basic foundations in place and then
lo and behold the business started you
know growing very quickly one of the
knocks on open source up until that
point was that it was very difficult to
monetize Red Hat had been the one that
had been able to make it and become a
big public company but there there
weren't a Litany of examples of Open
Source companies in the public markets
that I've been able to successfully
scale in a meaningful way how did you
think about that the the trade-off
between the ability to monetize the
community all of that stuff when you
came in it's a great question and
frankly when I told my friends and
people I trusted I was contemplating
taking this job they thought I was crazy
they said first a database company in
New York that's crazy when was the last
database company that we up up before
you it was 25 years 25 years ago yeah
the second thing was like a um open
source like this you know who's made
money in open source and then just a
database space itself forget about New
York there was a lot of you know next
Generation database companies that died
on the vine trying to be the next big
Oracle killer so all the kind of
conventional wisdom was against that and
the big one what I worried about was how
do we monetize open source because the
traditional open source model is you
have to define the pay wall between
what's free and what's paid for and to
some degree it's a thousan bargain
because if you give away a lot of
features to drive adoption it's very
hard to monetize and if you don't give
away enough features then you don't have
a lot of adoption so there's not a lot
of install base to then go monetized so
you're kind of Trapped In in this fan
bargain one of the things I realized in
actually watching AWS is that they were
monetizing open source as a service
really really well because you're no
longer defining a particular pay you're
defining monetization based on usage so
that fundamentally changed the Paradigm
about how open source technology was to
be used and so essentially we
recognizing that that had to be our
long-term future but you just couldn't
go there overnight now luckily we had
been investing in management tools
because that was the existing way we
were monetizing the technology whatever
the developer needed to build
applications was free but whatever you
needed to kind of mon you know Monitor
and manage and backup your
infrastructure was paid for so we were
starting to build tools which end up
being the ingredients for how we
actually rolled out our cloud service
what came first uh Atlas or the
license change M DB Atlas DB Atlas
so can you talk a little bit about that
you guys were one of the pioneers and
coming out with a cloud first kind of
open core model around that right yes uh
this was pre- snowflake being popular
pre-confluent pre- elastic pre- a bunch
of other companies roll trying to roll
out cloud services a lot of people
thought were crazy a lot of people
thought how is it that you're going to
partner and compete with hyperscalers
because we just didn't have the capital
go build our own data centers and then
trying to get all developers to come to
us we had to leverage the existing
infrastructure that the hyperscalers
have built but they also offer their own
competitive database offerings so a lot
of people are incredibly skeptical one
of the things that changed with rolling
out a cloud service is that we felt we
were really talking to the people who
loved our product because the existing
monetization model was while the
developers adopted mongodb the people
who bought our proprietary uh software
were the Ops folks because they were
trying to solve devops problem they
really viewed mongodb as a relationship
with convenience developers had a
relationship of love so for them it was
just H I guess if we have to deploy mang
I should buy your tools so it's always a
very painful uh engagement with the
customer but once you start dealing with
the development teams and saying you
know you can get out of the a world of
all this undifferentiated labor you
don't have to worry about provisioning
configuring and managing and backing up
your infrastructure we'll take care of
all that for you all you can focus on is
what really is Meaningful to your
business is building amazing apps that
transform your business that suddenly
got people's attention and so what was
also interesting is the launch of Atlas
forced us to build a self serve business
because initially we you know only
offered on sell serve where we basically
you know with a credit card you could go
provision in a cluster at first AWS then
we rolled out it rolled it out to gcp
and Azure and that also enabled us to
start acquiring customers in a much more
frictional way and even today when you
look at the atlas business the majority
of our customers are quote unquote sales
sold but the origin of those customers
the majority of which are still s serve
and that's a very interesting Dynamic
and in some ways a virtuous circle what
was the hardest part about getting that
going was it was it the getting the
sales reps to to sell the product was it
figuring out the pricing model was it
actually building the product itself to
service it the way we framed it was
building a startup with the startup and
then we were very emphatic that this we
could not fail and so from the board on
down this was like a very viewed as a
very strategic imperative and one of the
challenges when you're starting
something small you know when we went
public atas was like one or two% of our
business so the numbers really didn't
matter that much right so consequently
it's very easy to ignore this little
thing you're trying to do when you focus
on the core business so one of the other
things I did was I disproportionately
incentivized the exact team on the
performance of Atlas business uh
disproportionately to the scale of the
atlas business because it was so
important to make sure that they had
mind share the other thing that we also
really focused on was having a clear
single threaded leader who was now was a
guy named sahir ozam was now a chief
product officer he had this unique
ability of being very good on the
product and Technology side but also
really good in front of customers and
and kind of knew how to preach the
gospel of Alice and changing behavior is
hard and looking back now it says wow
this end up being a great success but
like any success story when you zoom
into the up into the right line there's
a lot of jagged edges and in getting the
Salesforce to change Behavior because
they they knew how to sell the on-prem
product and recognizing that your
primary customer is no longer the Ops
person but now it's the development team
getting to understand you have to sell
the total cost of ownership that um
getting to understand what is the true
value proposition of a cloud service
takes time and you just got to be you
know maniacal about that execution and
just constantly train and enable U the
Salesforce to do that and that takes
that that just didn't happen overnight
so we start with C serve then we
migrated to kind of the SB space and
high-tech organizations who were more
inclined to use Atlas and then later we
went into the high end of the Enterprise
segment were you spiffing the Reps
because I assume the dollars between
each the long-term of Cloud Atlas and
obviously the equity value it's created
has been pretty significant but the
dollars UPF front of selling on
Prem I assume had to be more is that how
you kind of did the incentive alignment
um it was similar in the early days
because we paid sales people on
commitments on ACV uh but but over time
we realized that was a mistake with a
cloud business because a lot of the apps
being rolled on Atlas were new apps and
so customer didn't really know how much
would the consumption be how big would
the app grow how many users would it
have how much data would be consumed and
so there's this lot of friction to force
a customer to Comm into a commitment
prematurely so over time we changed
incentives to encourage um customers
just to get on Atlas and then once they
felt like they had Clarity on the growth
projectory then they could come back and
get a better discount based on some
volume commitment and we've constantly
iterated on that you know sales
incentive in fact now over the last four
or five years has changed all the way to
where we're all in on consumption but it
started by a more traditional incentive
mindset were you worried at all about
cannibalizing the existing business or
was it clear that this is just going to
be the long-term future when you came in
there was a little bit of worry but it
was clear like our business wasn't that
big that we had this like large
installed base I mean remember I joined
the company when there was about 30
million Revenue when we filed our S1 we
were doing a little over 100 million
revenue and so it was not a huge
business and obviously today now we're
roughly about a$ 1.7 billion run rate
that's wild now now the other big change
I think that was notable that you guys
helped High year was a license shift and
so for people that aren't uh nerds in
the open source uh world can you maybe
talk through the difference between agpl
and sspl and what was a fairly
controversial decision at at the time
and how you went about making that right
so um when you looked at what the cloud
providers were doing um what what they
were doing was basically taking the free
versions of very popular open source
projects MySQL and a bunch of other
examp postgress Etc and basically
plugging those Technologies into their
cloud and offering as a service and they
were making money Handover fist this is
Amazon and Microsoft and Google and all
them are correct and so um what we were
concerned about was that the the
hyperscalers or someone else might do
the same with us what what people in the
industry call strip mining and agpl has
more
restrictions uh than say GPL or the
Apache license but there's still some
ambiguity in the language and what we
said is we' got the sense is as our
success started to take off we got the
sense you know what someone's going to
try and test how how um strictest
licenses and we didn't want to find
ourselves litigating this in court so we
made the decision that we need to come
out with our own proprietary license
which adhered to all the principles of
Open Source you know you can have access
to the source code you could modify the
code you could obviously distribute the
code but what you couldn't do or if you
decided to do was to offer mongodb as a
service you you had to open source all
the extensions you made to mongodb as
well as all the underline infrastructure
to offer that service and we said that
seems very reasonable because if you
choose to do that you just need to give
it back to the community it was candidly
a quite a contentious discussion we
tried to socialize this and get the OSI
which was the body that approves open
source licenses and they were up in arms
and said we don't this is not real open
source and a lot of people said oh my
God we might risk our adoption because
mangadu is quite popular and U our
adoption might dry out because people
will not want to use the non-sanctioned
open- source product and I thought about
this problem and I thought to myself if
you're a developer in Shanghai or Mumbai
or Pao Alto or New York yes so long as
it you know has remained consistent to
the open source principles are you
really going to care that much whether
or not it's an OSI sanction license
versus a license that enables you to do
what you want to do but more importantly
the product is the best product to solve
the problem that you're trying to
address and the BET was that develop ERS
wouldn't care about this and uh and
ultimately that bet that paid off but
there were definitely some nashing of
teeth when we made that decision and now
a lot of people have followed suit or
other people's using actually L people
have used SSP there's a dur called BSL
which kind of was inspiration based on
SSL where there's more protections
around people strip mining open source
technology which is basically I mean one
of the beauties of Open Source is uh is
that it allows for distribution it
allows people to use it for their own
intent if they want to service they want
to use it how however they see fit but
if you want to commercially use the
product you have to be willing to give
back and so the the the only people this
is really hurting I think are the big
cloud providers that are trying to offer
it as their own is that fair or or
Regional Cloud providers who also want
to do something like that yeah and our
belief was that when you think about
what's important for the end user the
end users are not going to care so it's
only people who have um mercenary
interests are going to you know be
annoyed about this so so that that
doesn't bother us and what you know the
whole strategy was we want to benefit
from the virality and the distribution
of Open Source while building a moat
like a typical software company and
that's essentially what's our strategy
and ultimately that strategy has paid
off and this has allowed a lot of Open
Source open core businesses to now
actually monetize and be able to build
themselves into big companies as well
exactly owners shift gears a little bit
is this your third or fourth company as
CEO third third company as CEO third
public company as well right what do you
view as the job of the CEO um I think
there's different definitions for
different types of cosos U in my
definition and I'll give Mark mlin from
uh the Old Co at paal networks he kind
of informed my my thinking around what a
CO should do and the basic point is that
I can do a thousand things like I can do
this podcast I you know I do a lot of
customer meetings I do a lot of employee
meetings I do review cor have corly
review sessions and qbrs to reviews to
attend sales forecast reviews Etc but if
I don't do three things well and I do
another 997 things well I failed and
what are those three things first what
is a company strategy what are we trying
to do where are we trying to go and how
are we trying to get there two do I have
the right people especially at the
executive level to go execute on that
strategy and three um have I removed all
the obstacles whether it's resourcing
whether it's culture whether it's
organizational alignment to make sure
that we can actually are set up for
Success so I can do all those other
things but I don't do those three things
well in my mind I failed and so to me
that's essentially what I think is
intrinsic to my job at some level being
CEO also means being like a super head
of HR and recruiting talent and being
able to get people within the Y how do
you think about uh that and and managing
a team as a core component well I tell
my team and I tell actually um everyone
in the company we're not in the database
business we're not software business
we're in the people business because
people are the means to uh to an end to
everything and invariably all the the
issues we're dealing with you know
what's going well what's going sideways
what's going really poorly is all tied
to people in fact I had an offsite with
the leadership team a couple weeks ago
and I I did a review of all the projects
that we've done really well and all the
projects that have struggled and what
was the root cause of those is that we
didn't have what we call the right dri
the directly responsible individual who
had the skills and experience to either
lead those projects or in some cases it
wasn't clear who the drri was so there
were shared accountability and Jeff bzo
says if you want something to something
to fail make it their part-time job and
so to me having the right people in the
right roles is so critical to everything
and so a lot of people and a lot of
organizations have this aspiration I
want to do X I want to go y That's the
easy part it's the day and day out
blocking and tackling of you know having
the right team focusing on what good
looks like measuring progress inspecting
deeply on how things are going well
identifying issues whether people issues
alignment issues um other problems and
just you know doing that day in and day
out is what really differentiates
companies that execute well versus
companies who aspired to execute well
but just don't so every strategic
initiative you guys have internally has
a dri that's responsible and accountable
for it yes and and that's a hot button
for me I mean there's times when it's
not clear and we say we need to have
identify the right drri so that'll be
like step one and the the role of drri
is to Define ID I IE what is good look
like and what time frame uh what is a
plan to get there and then what are how
do we measure progress and then
ultimately that person or that
Associated team will then come and
report if it's an important initiative
that will come and report to me and the
exact team on on progress and I would
kindly say we've done those some of
those really well and some of those have
been a little halfhazard and we're
trying to sharpen our execution there to
become even better I've heard you say
early in your career that you viewed uh
you didn't view vulnerability as a
strength uh but now it's it's become
something that that you're you're
proactive about and being willing to say
that you don't know the answer to
something when when that's the case can
you talk a little bit about that yeah I
think uh for people listening you
probably have a lot of Founders and
first-time cosos who are listening to
this podcast and I can tell you that
most people go through massive imposter
syndrome you know the investors wi than
the money now there's a team in place
and you're like holy you know this
is real and if you've never done it
before this it's not like you can
suddenly like suddenly magically learn
everything overnight and so when I was a
first first time Co I felt this enormous
pressure to be the all knowing on every
facet of the business whether it's
product marketing sales Finance Etc and
over time I realized I was really
frustrating my team because I felt like
I had to have my imprint on every
decision and I would micromanage some
decisions or I'd come in over the top
and claim credit to decisions that other
people had already come up with and it
was getting to be dysfunctional I could
sense that I was not being very
effective I could sense I was
frustrating my team and I had an
epiphany one day and said I don't need
to have all the answers what I need to
do is one have the right people around
me and be able to ask good questions and
make sure that the most important things
are being done well and what's
interesting is I also realized like you
know being in a meeting and and being
The Village at meeting is actually very
powerful because if I ask a question
that some people perceive as a dumb
question like hey I don't understand
what you're saying or this doesn't make
sense to me you could see the people in
the room just relax and say thank God
Dave asked that question because I had
the same question but I didn't want to
look stupid in front of my peers by ask
that question and the problem with um um
a lot of what holds people back is shame
right if you think about an Innovative
culture where people want to you know
experiment and by definition it's not an
experiment if you is a guaranteed
success so some experiments are going to
work and some are going to fail and so
if there's a high if if shame is very
toxic in your in your culture then by
definition you're not going to take a
lot of risk and so being more vulnerable
is really a strength because enables
people to to really take more risk talk
about real issues not talk about some
you know High futen stuff deal with
problems as they come and acknowledge
that we don't have all the answers but
together we can get those answers how
does that tie into being a student of
the game and not a master of the game so
that saying comes into um a philosophy
high around leadership which is like as
your leaders you constantly have to
adapt how I was a COO at blade logic in
2001 and how I today two very different
people and I think one of the lessons
I've learned and we've gone through lots
of leadership changes here at mongodb as
we scaled from a $3 million business to
a$ 1.7 billion run rate business is that
the business needs different styles of
leadership at different stages of growth
and you know obviously managing 250
people is very different than managing
close to 5,000 people and when I see
leaders fail is they don't adapt because
they can't and one of the signals for me
and how effective leader is going to be
is can they introspect on what's going
well what they're doing well and also
what's not going well and then can they
act on that introspection a lot of
people can do the first part where they
can introspect but a lot of people just
can't adapt and evolve their style
because they realize the way they were
doing things is just not working anymore
I mean candidly uh right after we went
public I to I part aways with our cro
and so that's a pretty you know if you
think about pretty frightening thought
you're a newly minted public company and
a quarter after you go public you part
ways through the C and I became the
interm cro until promoting our existing
cro was Cedric pesh who was running
Europe at the time and he's done a
fabulous job but one of the reasons is
that leaders just can't adapt as the
business is growing and so uh and so
being a student of the game is meaning
that you're very curious and you're also
very coachable right but you're curious
because I want to understand what I'm
doing well what more I need to do how I
need to adapt to different situations
domains you know and and experiences and
then have the mindset that I constantly
have to learn and grow how does
self-awareness tie into that and also
the the Steve walsky two circles Point
yeah yeah so uh so for those people
trying to figure out what that meant was
I remember I was having a discussion
with Steve walsky who was uh the
chairman CE PTC and um Mentor viewers on
yeah so when I Jo when I started BL
logic I never worked at a software
company and obviously i' never been a
CEO of a software company so I very was
very clear that I have a lot to learn so
I went to my board and said who's the
best softare seer in Boston and they all
said this guy named Steve wski they said
yeah but he eats nails for breakfast
here's the number but good luck so I
kept pounding the phone either every
week or every other week finally he
returned my call I met with him and for
some reason we clicked and he decided
first to be an adviser then later became
a board member and then ultimately
chairman of Blade logic so one day we're
in you know having a debate discussion
about a person and then he he went to
the Whiteboard and draw two concentric
circles and he says Dave this is the
meaning of life and I looked at those
two concerts I was like Target what's he
talking about and he goes what he said
was the Outer Circle is how people
believe they really are who they are the
inner circle is really who they are and
the point he was saying was that people
always have an overinflated opinion of
themselves now it's fine because there's
always going to be some gap between your
own self perception versus what other
perceive of you but when that Gap is
really wide that's when real damage can
be done and um you know one of John
mcmah who I worked with on a couple
companies one of his best lines in terms
of assessing how self-aware someone is
is he ask people what do you think
people say about you when you leave the
room and the most self-aware people can
be quite on point about what
acknowledging the strengths and weakness
is the most self unaware people have no
clue they just have a completely
different picture of who they are and
what I found is that the best leaders
are incredibly self-aware why because
they can read the room they can see what
messages are landing what messages are
not how they have to adapt their Stu
style maybe eight out of 10 people are
bought in but there's two people who
look pretty grumpy are not happy so he
or she knows that they need to go talk
to those two people to figure out what's
going on with them and also also
understand their own biases what
triggers them um and also um what they
may kind of have uh blind spots to and
so being self-aware is incredibly
important to Be an Effective leader hey
guys Rashad here I'm the producer of the
Logan Bartlett show and wanted to take a
quick second to make an Ask we are close
to 10,000 subscribers and are trying to
get there by the end of the year if
you're enjoying this conversation and
these episodes please consider
subscribing to the YouTube channel now
back to the show I've heard from people
that you work with and even impr prep
before this that you all have built a
very transparent culture here how do you
go about building transparency within
the culture and honesty and all I think
it's also tied to vulnerability one of
my pet peeves I started off my career at
at a large I start I came out
engineering school I went to AT&T in
Bell Division and AT&T had some amazing
people but what the culture there was
very passive aggressive and it's quite
endemic when BL logic acquired by BMC
the culture there was very passive
aggressive and to me passive
aggressiveness is a form of duplicity
you know imagine you're in a meeting the
senior leaders running the meeting
you're they're debating And discussing
the topic the senior says I think we
should do this and everyone nods
politely say yes that's the right thing
to do the meeting ends everyone walks
out of the theuh conference room and
then they roll their eyes and say
that'll never work that to me is a form
of passive aggressiveness like I want to
create a culture where we can have
Fierce conversations and debates
constructively about what to do and what
not to do but at the end of the day the
best idea wins not the most senior
leaders idea wins right and that is
amazing because it creates a culture of
meritocracy so no matter who you are if
you have you know an Insight that you
think is incredibly valuable you should
feel comfortable sharing it and and and
people will buy in if they think that
that idea has Merit and so um so that's
super important and also transparency
also means talking about the bad stuff a
lot of companies and actually when I got
here the joke was the management team
before me would only talk about good
things would never talk about bad things
and I always found when I was a younger
employee that it insulted my
intelligence when senior leaders kind of
basically um you know communicated in a
propaganda kind of way like I was like
okay come on that's not really true and
I think most people can see right
through you and so I always felt it's
really important to build credibility is
to really talk about both what's going
well and what the real issues and
problems are in the business and how are
we going to talk about them because once
what was interesting and I do that with
the board as well and I Mentor younger
CR saying when you tell a experienced
board member that everything is going
fabulously well they either will
immedately think one of two things
either you don't know what you don't
know or you're lying to them because
every company even the best run
companies have something blowing up
somewhere right and so I start my
meetings always talking about problems
here's the issues and challenges I'm
struggling with here's what's going on
Team Dynamics here's you know people I'm
worried about um you know when the team
comes in this is where I encourage you
to probe blah blah blah and what's
interesting is the more um my commitment
to the board is they will typically
never hear any bad news uh you know um
they'll typically hear bad news from me
first what it does is it disarms the
board because the board never feels like
I'm trying to hide information and then
they're leaning in to help me and in
fact the board has commented I give them
a lot of access to people multiple
levels below me so I have teams come in
based on say we're talking about a
particular project or particular
function so they love that they have
visibility many levels layers into the
organization for you know one more
transparency two they can see this the
depth of our bench and get a sense of
you know the culture that we have and I
find that incredibly powerful I spoke to
one of your former board members and he
said that uh you are one of the best
people he's ever worked with on doing
what you say you're going to do and
holding people accountable so that they
actually execute on whatever said is
actually going to be done how do you go
about building a culture of
accountability and actually making sure
people follow through and what they say
they're going to do um this is tied to
something else I always believe bad news
travels very slowly up the organization
but very quickly down the organization
good news will find me anywhere I could
be in a beach in the sou of France I
could be in in Hawaii or Tahiti and good
news will find me and but bad news I
have to go looking for and so whenever I
hear bad news I assume me assume two
things one I'm the last to know and two
it's far worse than what people are
telling me because invariably people
always modify or shave a little bit of
the truth to be a little bit more
diplomatic and in you know in a simple
example would be um you have you have a
customer who's starting to throw you out
the sales team tells their the sales
manager we have a problem at AC company
you know over multiple layers the way it
comes to me is so we're deal we're
dealing with a slight problem in Acme
company but then two months later the
customer turns and you're like how the
heck did that happen now we don't do
that here but that's an example of what
happens in most companies so we try to
really encourage sharing of bad news and
we try uh not to shoot the messenger
sometimes we're you know some people not
good at that but that's really important
because you can't get people to share
bad news that feel like they're going to
get punished for it and then what that
also does is that it it elevates
problems quickly and I always believe
that people don't perform always per
perform to what you expect they perform
to what you inspect so if you have a
high culture of inspection how's this
project going what's happening the
forecast what's happening with that
person what's happening with team you
end up invariably finding out what's
going on and the more inspection you
have not micromanagement inspection and
you do part of your operating Rhythm the
more quickly you can identify problems
and so um and this is back to the drri
thing like if you have a good drri who's
very clear what good looks like has
buying from Key stakeholders and you're
clear on the on the measurements then
when they come and Report it's very easy
to now um report on progress against the
metrics that we think we defined a
success and when things are you know say
falling behind plan then you start
escalating that and saying I have a
problem you know we need to fix these
issues feedback loops keeping those very
tight it's super important with uh
companies in general but are certainly
fast growing companies so that you you
can be held accountable to what you're
say you're going to do and also be able
to iterate pretty quickly how do you go
about keeping uh feedback loops tight
within I think feedback is a gift
I think in every facet of life feedback
is important whether it's feedback to
your personal life if your partner's
annoyed at you you want to hear that
feedback because then you don't know
what's irritating and upsetting them and
then in the business side the shorter
the feedback loops the more responsive
you can be especially to customer needs
or Market opportunities you know and the
classic example is look at government
functions the feedback loops are very
long imagine going the Department of
Motor Vehicles you know you want to pull
your hair out because they're not that
attuned to customer feedback and so to
me feedback is very very important and
that again it's a created by a culture
of high trust being comfortable sharing
bad news uh having positive intent and
then actually acting on it because the
worst thing you can do is give feedback
and no one does anything about it and so
then you say like this company doesn't
care or this person doesn't care so you
have to have a bias to action now
sometimes you can say I hear you but
this is not as important as some other
things we're trying to do and we're
going to sequence this later and make
them understand that in the oral scheme
of things it may not be as important as
you think it is but it's important to
have that discussion in line on what's
what to do now versus later you guys
maintain hybrid as a uh work environment
today how have you thought about that
how do you make it work yeah so I don't
believe um well what's happened
especially here in New York a couple
years ago there's a notion of quiet
quitting or people belief that anyone
who working from home is not working as
hard as someone in the office I don't
believe that I think that you know how
the productivity of someone is defined
by how aligned they are to the mission
of the company how aligned how clear are
the objectives of what they're uh what
they're trying to do and how closely and
how well they're held accountable and so
I also when I talk to employees they
value the flexibility you know in a
world where the boundaries of when work
stops and when your private life you
know begins in the day is now blurred
right so people value I had a employee
tell me the most important part of my
day is being able to pick up my child
from school uh that's a very important
moment for me but this person Works
incredibly hard and is a high performer
but but that flexibility you know makes
her much more committed to mangabb
because she has that flexibility to be
either other people love the fact that
hey in the middle of the day I've got to
go see the dentist or have a doctor
appointment or take care of an errand
now we do also believe in the importance
of in-person meetings but I think uh you
know it's not like people are talking to
each other every minute of the day there
times of this burst of activity and then
you come in to calibrate whether it's a
qbr planning session you're kicking off
a project or you're coming in and
assessing the state of the project so I
don't think you need to be in the office
four or five days a week I think the
toothpaste is out of the tube with the
pandemic
and I think uh it's the way you hold
people accountable is through their
leadership and if you have a high bar
and high standards you can still drive
high productivity even if people are
working at home or in the office we
touched on you did a a riff when you
first got the mongod DB but uh but
during the pandemic and when when
everything kind of reverted back uh over
the course of as interest rates went up
you did not do a broad-based riff uh and
I think philosophically you're against
Rifts in general not for some moral
reason but because it masks a bunch of
performance and management related uh
considerations can you talk about
important I think um I think a risks
have a place if there's suddenly some
structural cost structure problem you
have in the business imagine if 50% of
your customers disappeared overnight
there's no amount of Performance
Management that can right siize the
business quickly and you have to make
some hard decisions but I the reason I
I'm allergic to Rifts in general is
because to me and this happened here at
M to be when we got a sense in um uh
2022 uh that the world was changing and
the you know and and things were going
to become very different a lot of people
came to said why don't you just do a RIS
you know that it'll be so easy to do
that and we're you know we will be all
good and it'll probably be even more
quick and more efficient than just doing
this performance management process and
what I said to them is that but they're
not teaching anyone any muscles right
and we're not teaching people one of the
biggest weaknesses of new managers even
existing managers is knowing how to hold
people accountable and I have a
three-step process on how how to hold
people accountable we I'll tell you that
later if you're interested but we want
to develop the muscles of knowing how to
hold people accountable and what was
interesting is that I had people who
came up to me after the process said you
know what Dave it was surprisingly easy
to find the bottom 5% and I said what
did that tell you it said that either we
hired the wrong people or we didn't
develop them but we clearly had a
problem and and it was the men put so me
pushing you is you caused you to deal
with that problem you weren't dealing
with that problem proactively and that
there in there in itself is a problem
and we need to be much more proactive in
dealing with performance issues because
the best people get very frustrated when
they work with people who are either not
as committed or not as competent as them
because now you're actually penalizing
all the good people are working hard to
cover for the people who are not
producing at the rate they should be now
I want to hear your three steps for
holding people accountable yeah so the
the first step is you got to be very
clear on what you want right um and so
you know for project for the role um in
this period whatever you got to be very
clear here are my expectations and so a
simple example would be say um I expect
um you you to send me a report every
Friday on the week's activities I'll
just make a trivial example and the
first Friday you don't send it to me and
then I see you on Monday I say hey where
Logan where's that report goes oh yeah I
forgot about it um I'll get it to you
and you then you send it to me and I go
to you and said Logan listen I may not
have been clear why that's important to
me but I use those reports to really
understand what's going on in the
business you your you and your team play
a really critical role and it's not just
makeup work this is really important to
me so the what I'm really doing is I'm
making the prom that was my fault to not
clearing making clear to you what the
importance was for why I'm asking you to
do this and then I said now are you
clear Logan does everything make sense
and you go yes I got it now the next
time you forget to send me that report
now it can hold you accountable so you
can't hold someone accountable if you
don't do steps one and steps two so most
people get terrified of holding people
accountable because one they're not
clear what they want and they've not
been giving clear feedback on when
there's been missteps and when you don't
give feedback you're basically Sending
message not just to Logan but to
everyone else you know what I want is
not really that important there's not a
really culture of discipline I am okay
to let people cut corners and that by
itself is sending a message that maybe
this is not as a high performance
organization as as it is and so going
through that three-step process at least
for me makes it much more easy to to
hold people accountable I've heard you
say that recruiting is like pipeline
management once you stop it even for a
bit it dries up how much of your time do
you spend recruiting today uh today not
as much obviously for senior level
recruiting I I spent a lot of time we
just hired a new CTO so I was obviously
intimately involved in that recruiting
process um and I was pleased that I
actually beat my own ambitious goal by a
month but uh that's a different subject
but uh um obviously recruiting it all
starts with recruiting and um um if you
can't hire the best people then nothing
else really matters in my mind um a
leader has to essentially do three
things one is recruit the best team
possible two develop them to get them to
do what you want them to do and three
make make sure they consistently meet
and exceed their commitments right so
recruit develop and execute but it all
starts with recruiting and I think mcmah
has said this before if you hire
mediocre people but do a great job in
development and really monly focus on
execution you'll still have a mediocre
outcome if you hire great people and do
an okay job on development an okay job
in inspection you can still have a
pretty good outcome so it all starts
with recruiting um the point about the
pipeline is that um like a sales
pipeline a recruiting pipeline dries up
pretty quickly so you're talking to
candidates you're screening candidates
but then if you say you know what I'm
not going to um um put focus on
recruiting those candidates will slowly
wither away and go somewhere else so
they you say oh my God I need to hire
100 people next quarter you can't
suddenly like magically produce 100
candidate 100 qualified candidates very
quickly so constantly being in the
market and talking to people even if you
don't have roles to fill and getting a
sense of who's great who's out there um
you know selling the message and the
value proposes among to be is important
for us because we're planting seeds
sometimes we need to harvest those seeds
very quickly sometimes we planning seeds
because we know in the future we we we
will want those people to consider
joining us one of the things I heard you
say in your interview process is that
you inspect how thoughtful everyone was
in switching between jobs why why is
that important how do you go about
thinking about it to me the most
important professional decision you can
make is what company to go to right so
so when I look at a resume um I try and
understand why did it go from company a
to Company B or why did they even start
a company a why did it go to Company B
and and then maybe C or D I'm trying to
understand the decision process and what
I'm really trying to assess is how
thoughtful were they in in making that
decision to go from company a to Company
B Because as I said that's a very very
important personal decision for that
person and if that person is pretty
Cavalier I followed my boss oh I got a
call from a recruiter and they offered
20% more uh then I'm thinking to myself
you know okay those might be interesting
signals but that's not a very thoughtful
process then I'm thinking to myself how
thoughtful they going to be when they're
in that job making day-to-day decisions
about what products to build what
marketing programs to execute on how to
prosecute you know sales deals Etc and
so that to me is a really high quality
signal about the kind of person they are
whereas conversely if they're incredibly
thoughtful and saying I was really happy
here but I saw this new emerging Trend I
was really intrigued by this new
technology Trend I talked to five or six
different companies of those five or six
companies this company seemed the most
interesting I coold call them got a
bunch of meetings and then they timately
offer jobs and now that's a person who's
incredibly thoughtful I automatically SU
if someone's been in a job for two years
and less they failed unless there's
clear evidence that there was another
reason why they left you know I.E they
got married and had to move to another
city or there's some personal event
their life or the company got Acquired
and they shut down that operation
whatever why two years because in most
companies it takes about a year to
figure out that someone's not working
out and then another year to get rid of
them so if you've been at a company for
less than two years unless you can
convince me clearly convince me why I've
automatically assumed you failed any
favorite interview questions or things
you try to tease out in an interview
besides the thoughtfulness by which they
switch jobs um yeah I would say um
understanding um both why this Swit job
the other thing I like to Probe on is
give me an example of something you're
really proud of you know what is what is
a really proud accomplishment and
they'll tell me they closed this deal
they got this product out the door blah
blah blah then I'll start drilling in
and tell me more and go into
excruciating detail and if they have the
details at their fingertips that tells
me they were directly involved if there
were like a tertiary team member of some
project that was successful at that
company then very quickly I can figure
out that they weren't really involved
but they were just you know trying to um
essentially get credit for that you know
that project or that initiative that the
company undertook so that tells me again
how how intimately involved they were in
those in in quote unquote their most
proudest moment right if it's your most
proudest moment it's got to be something
that you should be directly and
intimately aware of if a job opens up
internally and you have an internal
candidate uh versus an external
candidate obviously you have a
disproportionate amount of information
about the person you've worked with in
the past and you're comparing to someone
externally how do you think about
evaluating those two people for the job
and how do you think about uh
discounting or maybe factoring in how
much you know about the internal
candidate versus the external one yeah
so just stepping back I was and the
thing I've said here mang and I said at
blade logic was I want people to come
here to build a career not to come here
for a job
but the problem here's the problem that
most leaders run into is that they have
their own existing team now they have a
job opening you know Joe or Sally are
are interested in that job but you have
a very nuanced opinion of them because
you see what they're good at but you
also see some of the things that maybe
they're not so good at in some of the
wards but it's a very nuanced
perspective on on Joe and Sally
meanwhile Jon shows up with a pristine
resume you know comes in presents the
best sense of him uh of himself
um and now all a sudden you're like wow
John's got all this credentials he's got
this track record he's got all these
results maybe I should hire John what
happens is you end up hiring John
because you have an asymmetry
information you only see the good stuff
about John but you have much more
nuanced view of Sally and Joe and then
six months later you realize well you
know John can't doesn't walk on water
either he's got things that he's good at
and he's got things that he doesn't good
at but what you've done is now you
demotivated Sally and and Joe and now
all of a sudden they say maybe this is
not the place for me now a sudden they
say maybe I should contemplate going
somewhere else so I'm not suggesting
that you never hire from the outside of
course we've hired from the outside but
you want to make sure your people inside
the company especially the people who
are performing are given a fair shot for
growth
opportunities you you also don't want to
do just have blind spots and say I'm
only going to you know promote someone
internally you want to make sure that
you assess the temple and the
marketplace and that to me is the best
way to really make the right decisions
for the business but ideally if push
comes to shove I much rather promote
within because it creates a meritocracy
you retain the culture and you basically
know what you're getting far better than
anyone from the outside in a fast
growing company uh the the slope of the
business often times will outpace the
slope of the individual in that role how
do you make decisions about if someone's
been good for up to that point in time
but it is time to maybe move on and
bring on someone from the outside how do
you think about the that that balance
and tradeoff so my philosophy on that is
you can usually fool the people above
you you can sometimes fool the people
around you you can never fool the people
below you and the biggest tell for me if
a leader is not scaling is how
frustrated is their team becoming are
good people starting to leave is the
quality of the new people that the
leader recruiting is now no longer a but
now like B's and B minuses and C's that
to me is a huge tell about whether not a
leader scaling because the people who
work for you clearly know how effective
you are clearly know the quality of
decisions you're making clearly know if
you're being a hindrance or or an asset
in terms of enabling them to get their
jobs done and so that will show up very
quickly to them and so that to me is the
best hell and in fact when I joined
mongodb one of the first things I did
was review all the organizations and I
tried to understand you know who was in
these teams what the level of turn was
and uh the quality of the people in
those teams and that gave me a great map
about where the problems were in the
organization and that also informed my
decision of where to focus first and I
think that just remains and and um it
may seem awkward to say this but we've
gone through many leadership transitions
I've been through three CMOS I've been
through two two CFOs I've been through
three cro I've been to uh two Chief
product officers um I've been through
three CTO and that's is just a function
of the business scaling very quickly but
not everyone scales at the same rate now
now some people left on their own
valtion they were tired and they you
know want to take some time off but in
many cases the people just can scale to
the next level now your parents gave you
two options Prof professional you could
either be an engineer or a doctor right
and ultimately you found your way uh
finding religion in sales as well how
how did you discover sales as something
that you you had passion for and what
would you tell to CEOs that maybe view
it as a black art or something
Unbecoming yeah well my dad was a a
rocket a true rocket scientist he
designed uh rocket engines and and and
satellites and so um he always viewed
sales as like a bunch of Youth scar
sales guys thought it was not a very
honorable profession so so what was
interesting is uh when I started working
I was in this rotational assignment at
AT&T where a gave me exposure to
different functions and the functions
that were closest to the customer where
I could see the intersection of business
technology uh coming together was where
I got really you know interested and
excited I personally knew that I didn't
want to be like a hardcore developer or
some engineer in a back room designing
you know circuit boards or something
like that so I felt like I wanted to be
where the business business and the
technology came together and then as I
started learning more and more my
business I realized sales is so
important to um to the success of any
business uh at being having its monop
Monopoly Roots didn't really actually
have a great Salesforce and I went to a
smaller Telecom Comal uh teleport which
is a celect they also had an okay
Salesforce so one of the reasons I I
reached out to Steve walski is because
PTC had this reputation of having a
great product and also an amazing
Salesforce and Steve and I talked about
that and as he framed it which I live
today is like if you marry a great
product with a great goto Market engine
obviously in the old days only sales for
us is now
self-service um and various different
sales channels uh you that's where the
magic happens and what I tell people is
that as much thought as we put into
product we also think about very hard
about how we're thinking about how we go
to market how customer buying Behavior
changed and I believe that if you can
make product and go to market
competitive advantage that that really
differentiates you from other companies
in the industry now I I every job I I've
heard you say and I agree with has
something that you hate about it uh I
think we live in this culture of people
looking for this perfect thing out there
and job hopping and all of that um is
there can you elaborate on that point
and what advice would you have for young
professionals that are maybe uh trying
to find the perfect job with nothing
that they they hate in in terms of their
profession yeah I don't think the
perfect job exists I think there's
things you can find that you love to do
but there would be fast that job that
are maybe not as as enjoyable and I I
find when I the other thing when I talk
to people why they move from say company
a to Company B what I'm also trying to
understand is are they running away from
something or they running to something
and what I find is a lot of people
especially this younger generation they
don't NE have the skills to deal with
adversity so their inclination is to run
away from adversity and go to somewhere
else where to think that grass is
greener and and I tell my own boys
happiness and success is not the absence
of problems is the ability to deal with
them you may have a boss that you don't
get along with you may have um you know
you're dealing with a difficult customer
and uh they're very unreasonable you
know what are you going to do uh you may
have a product that doesn't always work
and and you're frustrated because it's
it's it's awkward it's embarrassing you
in front of if you're a salesperson uh
in front of your customers who trust and
respect you this going to be always
situations and difficult things you can
choose to run away or you can say how am
I going to fix this problem or how am I
going to Elevate this issue that that
someone who can fix this problem fix
this problem to me those are really
important life lessons now obviously if
a company's in like a death spiral no
one's suggesting you keep staying there
but I think it's important for people to
learn how to deal with adversity you
know obviously grit is something that we
think a lot about uh and you know one of
the characteristics we look for is are
these people do these people have grit
and one of the things or as some people
call do they fight or flee I'm a fighter
and uh and I hope to find other people
who uh who have that orientation to to
buckle down when things get tough no
we've referenced McMahon and walski but
I want to back up to the uh to the
original days of Blade logic so can you
tell the story of how blade logic came
to be and then maybe the fortuitous
timing of the fundraise and that Journey
sure so I had been at a company called
Breakaway Solutions which and I had
started a company called applica which
is the Corpus of their cloud computing
business so we are like a first
generation cloud computing being Telco
guys we call ourselves application
service provider so it was a very sexy
ter yes and being Telco guys we thought
it all about the sophistication of the
network not anything to do with the
application so while Ben off was
launching Salesforce and thinking about
a radically new multi-tenant
architecture we were thinking about it's
all about the network and and because
we're we were data Broadband networking
guys the network could solve the whole
problem obviously we were wrong um we
ended up taking that company public and
then um 70% of our customers were Dooms
and then obviously we saw the rise and
fall of the first B bubble what was the
peak Market gap of that uh 5 billion wow
and so um that being said we were we had
um essentially like 11 data centers
around the world they were Colo sites
but we were provisioning and managing
all the infrastructure and as the
business was scaling I was constantly
throwing people at that prom to
provision manage infrastructure because
with the first generation of Internet
architecture the complexity was moving
from the desktop to the back end within
clients and um and I was like shocked
when things started getting tougher I
said there's got to be tools to automate
this because we just can't keep throwing
people at the problem and I was shocked
to find out that there were no tools
most of the tools were desktop tools it
just didn't really work in a server
oriented world so then um I left
breakway actually end up being an e
abimer and I kind of worked on this idea
and my co-founder was an e battery and
we both decided to work together we B
basically worked on this idea and we and
that was the Corpus of starting blade
logic was coming out with a new
server-based orientation to provision
and configure servers in data centers
and so this was in the summer of 2001
and you know we had done a bunch of
Market research and obviously the bubble
had just bursted so investors were quite
skittish about like funding new
companies because they were just dealing
with the trauma of all the companies
that were basically struggling so the
the bar was quite High and the
valuations were were not great so it's
quite expensive to raise Capital we end
up raising our first round 5 days before
911 W so you probably would not be
talking to me today if IID waited five
days longer right because that deal
probably would have fallen apart near
jagar wrote a blog post who let the
servers out uh after the Baja men who
let the dogs out I think it's still
somewhere on the internet if you can uh
if you can dig it up but going through
that Journey you guys competed
head-to-head with with opsware which uh
for for people that don't know was run
by Ben horror witz um and there was and
Mark Andre and Mark Andre and it was a
legendary uh uh battle I would say uh
that that I don't know if there's
anything that's even quite like it today
of of the culture and and you had John
McMahon they had bar cranny it was a
very it's interesting so actually so I
competed with loudcloud which is the
first version of opare when I was
running you know at Breakaway right so
they were another cloud computing
company and then they decided to
repurpose their software provisioning
tool into a software company where I
decided to start from a clean sheet of
paper um and by definition I felt we
always had the better product but Mark
and Ben are great marketeers and so what
was interesting is that um they had a
flagship account in EDS and then they
started trying to go after other
customers but they kept running into us
and we were beating them everywhere so
they realized what is these blade guys
doing that you know we just don't know
and they realized we had a PTC guy
running actually it wasn't McMahon it
was a guy named Steve San who was
another PTC guy so uh um so then they
decided to uh um basically follow the
same Playbook they actually did reach
out to John but they ended up hiring a
guy named Mark cranny uh who also kind
of took the PTC Playbook and at the same
time Steve Tran again another example of
who did great work in the beginning but
then I realized wasn't scaling to the
next level that's when I recruited John
and so yes it ended up being two PTC
sales guys running two very aggressive
sales teams going after the market and
uh you know obviously um Mark and Ben
ultimately sold out to um HP uh and then
we ultimately got bought a year later um
by BMC soft and got bought what right
before lemman collapse you sort of book
in both crisises yes so the day we uh
closed our deal um was the day um uh JP
Morgan b b STS for three bucks a share
and the culture of blades Logic the
culture like the number of people that
have come through there I mean not just
 but but data dog and Snowflake and
OCTA and we can sort of go down the list
of of other people that are zscaler uh
that power Enterprise selling in Silicon
Valley did you recognize at the time how
talented the sales folks you you had
within the organization were or is it
sort of a fish in water and you didn't
totally like these were just the people
around you no I I consciously wanted to
build I remember I I believed in wal's
philosophy that if you marry a great
product with great distribution that's
when the magic happen so I was very
conscious which is why I ended up
chasing after McMahon because he was
already even then a legend and and
saying would you considered joining um
BL logic and some people were actually
shocked that I was able to get him um
and then I would say the credit goes all
to John because the what John makes what
makes John really unique is I think one
he's an amazing listener um you know if
you talk to people when you interviews
people people feel like he looks into
their soul second thing he's a fabulous
recruiter so his I Talent is off the
chart so that's why the team was so good
because he could really pick out the
best people even if people with limited
track records but figured out they had
something really special about them
third he is an an incredible developer
of talent so it's not just recruiting
them but constantly train them and John
and I would work together what do we
what does the sales for need to learn
you know this quarter versus next some
of them would be sales specific issues
other would be product and Market issues
how to differentiate you know blade
logic versus opst and all the other
tools out there so developing Talent was
something that that was he was really
good at and then he was maniacal in
execution and so again recruit develop
and execute right and John was A+ in all
those categories now what about walski
as a mentor how did he influence you and
uh yeah why was he so good for you along
the way um so walski um I you know I I
give him a lot of credit for informing
my leadership philosophy he um all the
way from product and go to market and
bring the two together how to think
about like leadership how to think about
like fundraising how to think about like
managing the board um you know was so
because as a first-time board member it
this was all new to me and you just kind
of learn that quickly on the job now
there's a lot more data you know those
days the data was quite sparse and so
you really have to talk to people so I
do encourage firsttime Founders whether
not you have a board member or not but
find mentors who you can talk to because
the CR role is a very lonely job right
because everyone's advocating for
something it could be your team and and
not that they're they're being malicious
but they're Advocate things that are
important to them then you have um your
board and they're they're things that
they care a lot about too so when you
are thinking about things you want to
run something by a board member how it
affects them or maybe you know their
Equity position is going to have some
function of how they respond to that
idea similarly if you're thinking about
a restructuring the organization if you
want to socialize it with a few people
if it's going to potentially marginalize
some people they're not going to be very
happy with that so the SE role is a very
very lonely role and so having people
you can go to where you can just get
unvarnished advice be very comfortable
you know laying out what the issues are
and burying your soul and not worrying
about it being used against you is so so
important and wsk you play that role for
me I want to ask about the topic is your
right now which I think is on everyone's
mind artificial intelligence and you
guys are playing an important role in
that how how do you think about AI how
does it compare to past trends that
you've seen along the way and yeah the
risk is of of being a cliche I
definitely think is the next big
profound platform shift in our industry
um I think that uh what's interesting is
I would say AI 1.0 is all about focusing
on data scientists I think AI 2.0 where
you'll see much more broad-based
adoption especially around developers
who have to build smarter applications
and incorporate these new smarter
Technologies um we feel like we are well
positioned because it will unlock a lot
of opportunities where a lot of people
have been okay with keeping these Legacy
Platforms in place but now with the
Advent of AI it may it might be the
Catalyst for them to rethink about
modernizing big part of their
infrastructure uh we obviously have
announced some capabilities around
vector and so on so forth where people
can obviously leverage rag to marry
public data with private data to build
these smarter applications but I think
you know it's very very early days what
I'm really interest in understanding is
how does a developer workflow change
with the Advent of AI and I think we're
just at the early days of figing that
out and obviously we want to play a big
role in enabling that developer workflow
now you've been in uh New York City tech
for a long time right now were you up in
Boston for blade logic and then moved
down no I lived here I actually we had
our first uh child who just graduated uh
in May uh in in July of of 2001 and uh
and so moving was Impractical so I was
Community Up To Boston which wasn't easy
but basically you know I figured out a
way to do it I tried to start BL logic
in New York but it was just too
difficult because the ecosystem was in
place and the culture you you try to
talk to Wall Street people they say yeah
I work for a startup but they want to
keep their salary and still get a big
Equity you know position in the company
which obviously wasn't practical um now
I think it's very different here in New
York but yes um um I commuted up there
and uh and then obviously have always
lived in the New York area so what's
been your perspective of how New York's
changed over the last what 22 some odd
years working in Tech and uh ASP way
back when and now software today yeah so
I went from The Lone B2B guy to now
surrounded by you know companies like
data dog which I'm on the board of and
uh you know comes like uip Pat and I'm
glad you retired from being a VC by the
way yeah data dog is one of your only
Investments as a VC pretty good one yeah
yes well Olivia and the team there get
all the credit um and uh Etsy obviously
has also been a very successful company
um so to me New York is a fabulous place
right because one um your customers are
literally outside your front door you
have these amazing large companies
financial services companies and other
types of companies all in your backyard
two New York is a gateway to really
anywhere in the world you can get to
Europe very quickly it's like like a
West Coast Flight you can get to the
Middle East you can get to Asia and
going to Asia is not that much longer
from New York than it is say from San
Francisco I think um there's a obviously
a whole other dimension of New York in
terms of culture not everyone's in Tech
there's so many other things to me I've
been to almost every major city in the
world and I still think New York's the
best city so I'm I'm I'm I'm stoked that
uh New York is such a big tech center
now yeah that's great that's great uh
last one before I let you hop is there a
piece of conventional wisdom Silicon
Valley wisdom that you adamantly
disagree with that you hear get uh
shared quite a bit well the one thing I
think there's a pejorative uh
perspective on professional CEOs but
what's interesting is if you look at
like Nikes Aurora look at like Frank
slman I think I've done reasonably well
like professional CEOs have had Major
Impact Mark mlon before Nick Nesh have
some major now the founder friendly kind
of orientation makes a lot of sense
obviously you know these companies don't
start without Founders who think
differently and see PRS that or
opportunities that other people don't
see but I think uh most people have this
very pejorative view they almost think
oh the company's lost his way we they
have to bring a professional Co but when
you look at some of the biggest
companies in the world and some of the
most successful companies in the world
you know having the right professional
Co is not exactly a bad thing yeah good
well Dave thanks for doing this my
pleasure it's great to be
[Music]
here
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
he
