welcome to the Logan Bartlett show I am
your host Logan Bartlett and what you're
going to hear on this episode is a
conversation I have with Emmett sheer
Emmett is the co-founder and former CEO
of twitch one of the most influential
Tech Platforms in recent memory from its
humble beginnings as a reality
television show focused on one of his
friends to the most influential online
community that exists I came with a
framework for prioritizing features
which is I got out of talking to a bunch
of streamers and they wanted to fame
love and money is this thing producing
more money more fame or more love right
we will prioritize resources against
those is it not then it's not important
or we're not going to do that Emmett and
I take the conversation at a bunch of
different directions about how he
learned to grow as a leader and how he
ultimately sold the business to Amazon
and then stayed on for another 10 years
after that running the company Amazon
actually lets CEOs be CEOs if you want
to sell your company and keep running it
I couldn't recommend any really any big
tech company other than Amazon how do we
just make sure twitch continues to be
the best place for streamers we also
talk about why he thinks remote work is
actually bad for most tech companies
there's a reason why silicon Valley's
taking over you can't take that culture
and Transplant it into a remote work
environment and expect it to work Emmett
was a part of the first y combinator
batch in 2006 along with the founders of
Reddit and Sam Altman and so we talked
what it was like in the early days of
working with Paul Graham at YC he's
going to walk away from the conversation
with Paul believing we are the shed we
are smart capable and we're going to
take over the world the only thing
standing between us and taking over the
world is we have to go grind even harder
road trips are not tours of gas stations
and your life shouldn't be a tour of
money picking finally Emmett shares what
he's most concerned about with
artificial intelligence so here's now
Emma
thanks for doing this
um you had four co-founders of twitch
Justin TV uh you stayed on ran twitch
Michael has been running various aspects
of YC over the years uh Kyle started
Cruise after he left
and then Justin
Khan is a quasi internet celebrity at
this point I mean he's gone through a
bunch of stuff but yeah he had Atrium he
had exact Atrium and now yeah now I
think internet celebrity and uh DJ DJ
got it interesting guy uh what made your
relationships to their co-founders such
that you guys all stayed together and
worked well together over the years so
uh I've known Justin since I was eight
uh we grew up together in Seattle went
to school together uh school being a
high school elementary school uh Middle
School who she didn't go to the same
high school but then we did go to the
same College again
um and I met we met Michael uh in
college probably closer to Justin than
to me uh and then Kyle we recruited out
of MIT uh as we were starting the
company he was a uh he was a I think a
sophomore at the time
how did you come across Kyle well he
says an email to the MIT like hackers
who want projects list and two people
replied and one of them was Kyle
um and uh
he thought we seemed incredible because
we built a startup and sold it on eBay
before and we thought he seemed credible
because he sent us a 27-page PDF with
CAD drawings and so we uh uh we wound up
we want to pick him up selling a startup
on eBay by the way we glossed over that
but uh you literally listed the IP for
your company on eBay which is an
interesting separate story you've told
it you've told him enough I won't make
it again but I can tell the short
version of it which is that we'd started
a copy of Google Calendar but before
Google Calendar existed and after Google
launched Google Calendar we were like oh
we didn't really have any other ideas
for what to do other than a JavaScript
calendar on the internet and they
already did that so uh we decided we'd
sell it uh
we didn't know how to sell something on
the Internet like how to sell us a
software company uh especially one that
wasn't like a real acquisition and so we
thought we just listed on eBay uh which
which worked actually we sold like a
quarter million dollars
um which
um I think it's actually a good
demonstration of like the kind of thing
you have to do in startups a lot which
is
you you have to just figure out how to
solve a problem uh
even if the standard paths don't that
you have to make up what what it is
um there's a lot of making it up uh that
has to happen first first thing like
startup because almost by definition the
normal stuff isn't isn't all set up was
that a PR did you know it was going to
be kind of PR stunty and that that would
lead to distribution yeah that was that
was the idea that was part of it the
idea was we were like we need to get
people to know we're selling it how do
we reach them oh if we listed on eBay
that'll be funny we can get people to
write an article about that it was very
intentional it actually worked it worked
that's how it worked it worked it worked
as planned actually yeah minus the fact
that eBay took down our listing is we
had two links in it
um about five days into the seven day
listing and we had to relist it which is
kind of a hard stopping experience
because we had one bit at fifty thousand
dollars at that point and we were like
no we've lost our bidder uh but it turns
out that uh that that didn't actually
hurt us at all so you had the
credibility of that and so Kyle was like
these guys have credibility yeah they
they must know what they're doing I I
think Kyle overestimated how much
credibility that should have given us
but uh it did it did prove that we were
the kind of people who like could
actually build things um and sell them
so that's I guess it wasn't a zero and
there was a deep level of trust but also
some dysfunction among the group Kyle
went nocturnal for a while to avoid
conflicts so yeah there's actually we
did a podcast about this uh an only
friends episode which is great it's
super entertaining two hours of like you
guys shooting the yeah if you want
the the full full deep details version
of it but the high level version is uh
like it worked because all four of us
trusted each other
um and we somehow managed to pick four
people who were smart hard-working you
know competent but I think most of all
who had the
who understood what it meant to be part
of a Wii not not a bunch of individuals
always thinking about whether or not uh
how is this working for me
um and I think that that's what makes
uh that's what makes Partnerships work
um
both probably like romantic Partnerships
and business Partnerships because if
you're going to be in a a partnership
not an employer employee relationship
but a partnership relationship you can't
always be thinking about whether or not
or you can't be modeling what what are
they doing are they are they trying to
what what's their incentive versus my
incentive versus the company's incentive
it's dramatically simplifying it makes
everything a lot easier if you can just
only think about what is right for the
company and then just ignore everything
else
um
and I think that that's something that
goes wrong in a lot of uh a lot of
things and it's it's what causes
instability because suddenly
when there's lots of interest at stake
there is conflict about my interest
versus your interest but when you can
simplify it to well what is our interest
and everyone everyone can actually
commit to that uh it works pretty well
is there any way to solve for that as
you're now working more with
entrepreneurs
um yeah be that way yourself yeah like
the number one the number one cause of
the problem in all of your relationships
is you that's true again romantically
and in business uh and
the solvings for how do I
actually buy into this is this is we we
are doing this is really important and
then also obviously you need to work
with people who have that mindset as
well but you have less control over that
and you have less ability to detect it
and at some level you know you have to
trust and Hope
but uh I think there's something about
if if you do it
first of all you can control that so
that's good but second of all
it brings it out of other people when
they when they can see that you're
serious about we and you're not
you're not run you're not gaming them
you're not cheating uh you're not like
pretending you're about all about we and
then actually being about yourself
people respond to that it draws it out
of your partner as well so you launched
and shipped a bunch of products over the
years uh that ultimately led to Twitch
so there was a calendar for gmail which
was you and Justin then after that
social network for families SoundCloud
like business a web crawler that map
popularity like clout a flexible to-do
list kind of an airtable-ish thing an
Evite competitor something that was kind
of similar to GitHub her Roku replet
whatever you want to call it then Justin
TV ultimately twitch I heard you say
something interesting when learning you
get exposure to a wide variety of
problems related to the topic to
actually teach you how to understand and
see the differences between things you
don't just study one piece of music to
learn music did all these experiments
and all the different products that you
guys iterated on did it actually help
prepare you for twitch's success or are
they just aimless Cycles along the way
um I think did help prepare us I think
the main thing they actually prepared me
for was building like I did learn
something from the product work on it
but honestly we did such a bad job on
the product
uh design aspects of it and the sort of
business design aspects of it that I
didn't learn as much from that as I'd
like to what I what we learned from is
the engineering side of it like the
design side of it like how do you
actually build a thing that like
functions and and has uh has
functionality and not too many bugs and
I got a ton out of stuff on the uh
uh on the building side I would say on
the on the how does stuff work side and
learning how to design how to how to
build a product how to build a
successful business
um the stuff I built myself was probably
only
a tenth of the data mostly I was like
obsessively studying how other
businesses worked because you get a lot
more you can only launch a new thing
every you know few weeks if you're fast
usually every few months like a
significant new thing but there's new
stuff being launched all the time and if
you want the number of reps you need you
can't just learn from your own your own
mistakes you have to be learning from
everyone else's mistakes and everyone
else's successes at the same time I
think that's the uh that was my
you know my primary uh you know
University for that was it what was with
Justin with Michael with Kyle every
lunch every night every weekend like we
just talked about startups Non-Stop and
the thing we would often be talking
about would be not our startup but like
oh why is you know Facebook is working
why is Facebook working why are they
beating Myspace like what's different
about it why what's good about their
strategy what's not good about their
strategy
um
and that
and really carefully paying attention
and trying out and like using the
product and and
paying attention to what is actually
working in the real world you learn a
lot I think that's where that's probably
the main thing I learned from from a
design point of view I I I joke that
that's my main only value as a career
Finance person investor is one I'm used
to just giving advice and letting people
decide you know I'm not used to having
actually owning the decision myself
which is actually can be nice as a board
member like hey here are the options and
two you get to simulate out a lot of
different data points for all the
companies that come in and pitch and so
you're you can extrapolate on a bunch of
different stuff there
one of the things that uh I have a
friend uh Matt who uh almost started our
first company with us but instead went
into went into finance and you know runs
a hedge fund and uh
uh has worked at a bunch of the finance
jobs over the years uh and he's he's an
investor in what I've discovered is
investors have this
just in totally different lens at least
you know public markets investors and I
think most private markets investors as
well who are a later stage where it's
about like whether the industry is good
and like the capital allocation like the
structure of the business which is not
something actually that Founders think
about all that much and I think I think
it's right that Founders don't think
about that because For the First
two three years of a company
it doesn't matter like just build
something people want and sell it to
them like ignore everything else but as
you get bigger and bigger those things
become actually quite important and you
start to try to think about oh or in
this industry but we could be in this
adjacent industry and there's some way
to shift how our business is perceived
or what kind of work we do and how
what's the structure of how Capital
flows work and can we change that and
those actually do become very important
questions but like usually later
um there's sort of a handoff that
happens it's funny to hear you all talk
about like iterating on the product and
trying to find something and one of the
throwaway lines I've heard I don't know
if is you adjusted or someone's saying
we could go be build Enterprise software
but that's boring and we don't want to
go do that I was like you know in 2006
or 2007 you would have created a lot of
value doing Enterprise software and you
were just like hey not for us that's too
boring to go pursue it um I think uh we
we talked about building instead of
twitch or social cam
um because Michael went and uh founded
social cam which you end up selling to
Autodesk that was weird in a way the
Autodesk thing never really made sense
to me
um
we talked about building a WebEx
competitor because like WebEx is
obviously a huge market like
teleconferencing and
we have like no doubt we could build a
better product than WebEx because WebEx
is annoying to use
which we're basically talking about Zoom
right a more consumer version of WebEx
is zoom
um and
we decided against it because we knew it
would involve Enterprise no not the
product side of it but the sales side of
it like Enterprise sales is like a whole
business and uh
we just like had no interest in like
learning how to do that
um and it's actually uh
I think I think a good example of sort
of knowing yourself like I actually
don't think I would have had I think I
probably could have learned how to do it
but I don't think I didn't want to do
that I wanted to do something else and I
think it's it's important for Founders
to do after the thing that they're
interested in
um although
it was also a better time for Consumer
like I think
uh we go twitch worked a lot of actually
good consumers companies started around
that time it got a lot harder to win in
consumer as the big player is
Consolidated uh more of distribution and
I think
uh I think three or four years later
maybe we would have pivoted into
Enterprise just because lack of any
credible other option just getting
distribution would have been really hard
with and certainly today it's a huge
pain um there's an hourglass quote that
I like a lot and I know you do as well I
think I've quoted it before uh I won't
read the whole thing but nobody tells
this to people who are beginners I wish
someone told me all of us who do
creative work we get into it because we
have good taste but there is a gap for
the first couple years you bake stuff
it's not that good it's trying to be
good it has potential but it's not but
your taste the thing that got you to the
game is still killer and your taste is
why your work disappoints you a lot of
people never get past this phase they
quit most people I know who do interest
in Creative work went through years of
this we know our work doesn't have the
special thing that we wanted to have we
all go through this and if you are just
starting out or you are in this phase
you got to know it's normal and the most
important thing you can do is put in the
work
period it's a sort of profound quote I
think it can be applied to a lot of
different things as you guys were
iterating on all of it did you did you
know that your products just weren't
that good and was it disappointing along
the way to ship all these different
things and not have it take off like you
hoped it would yeah I'd say there's I
had that in three different layers I'm
the first one from an engineering
perspective I just wasn't that good of
an engineer I knew what good engineering
looked like I remember visiting for the
friend feed offices which had like
Gmail incredible programmer I think who
else is maybe Brett Taylor like like
really
insanely good programmers and them
talking about their Engineering Process
and like me using their product and
seeing the engineering behind it just
being like
oh that's what that's what I'm trying to
do that and like the thing I'm just like
incompetent like the thing I'm doing I'm
just doing this all wrong
um and then spending like 10 years
trying to get better at building stuff
and eventually I I did learn how to
build stuff more like the way that they
did
um and it was better but it was it was
10 years of like being quite
disappointed in the quality of the
engineering I was doing
it was it worked but it it wasn't like
uh it wasn't
well designed it wasn't good
um
and then there was this the product side
where
um
I I did I didn't think I didn't
I wasn't that disappointed in the the
Micro Design of the products I just
thought we did a pretty good job there
from fairly early and to some degree
it's a
uh
it's a little different from uh from
other kinds of creation things sort of
like whatever you can think of you can
kind of do like copying is very easy at
that level and so if you have good taste
you can just copy good stuff and it
works but at the macro level there's
this thing missing where like
we weren't good at business well we
weren't good at figuring out what do we
need to build that people will actually
want and the constant disappointment was
we'd build stuff and I wouldn't have
actually solved the problem for the
person I think
and that was very frustrating and like
hard to uh hard to deal with and
uh there was a sense of like
uh
that that's that's almost more like
learning to do science
I would say the engineering thing is the
thing where I felt The Hourglass quote
the strongest
the
and about like I had this level of taste
where I could really see what I was
trying to do and I couldn't achieve it
with my hands the other thing was not
understanding like
uh it's like I was I was I was a grad
student I was writing papers and they
were getting published but I knew I
wasn't actually like discovering
anything that's that important like the
the papers which weren't on important
discoveries and I was somehow missing I
knew I was missing something
um
but that's a that's a slightly different
thing Than The Hourglass question
Justin TV so you the original idea for
it for people that don't remember was
actually
following Justin your co-founder around
for 24 hours a day filming 100 of his
life
did you did you actually think at that
time that like that you would be a
reality television Studio business or
did you know this was kind of a means to
some end and you were mucking around the
idea was always that we would
open it up for other people to produce
shows like we never thought we were
going to be the people
for doing the production everything
we're going to license the MTV or
whatever yeah we we thought we were
produ building a technology to enable
ourselves to make the first
live streaming reality show and that
other people would then go on to build
make more live streaming reality shows
using using what we built which you know
within one order of magnitude is what
what happened
um but where we got what went wrong was
that uh
uh with that Vision was that like
reality TV requires editing live reality
TV is a bad idea
I just didn't really understand how the
entertainment I didn't understand we
didn't understand anything about
anything so that that was that was crazy
but actually to level below that we were
very very right because we what we
actually had was that Justin
uh who
uh has always been you know living in
the future a little bit when it comes to
this kind of stuff
uh really wanted to be an influencer and
really wanted the attention and wanted
thought it would be cool to like live
stream a lot about of of his life which
was a thing that not a lot of people had
done at that point and we built the
technology to enable him to live his
influencer dreams and that turned out to
be quite powerful actually
um the number one thing we did right
with Justin TV the thing I would
encourage everyone who's trainable
consumer software to do is we built
something for ourselves we built the
thing that we wanted to use every day or
at least one person on our team wanted
to use every day and uh most of the
Innovations
on Twitch on Justin TV were things we
invented for ourselves running the show
because we thought they'd be fun like
the idea of having uh our own custom
emotes and chat that are like faces of
the people on the show that twitch
distilled does that today uh
and we had that idea because we were
running the show we would never have
come up with it in a vacuum and so I
think there's something really powerful
about that approach even though we were
we were wrong about the reality TV show
thing we were right about
people wanting to do live streaming I
mean twitch was ultimately a version of
just Justin TV it was just more uh
verticalized or specialized do you think
had you kept that Justin TV I guess why
didn't you guys keep at Justin TV why
didn't you keep plowing ahead we we got
Justin TV profitable after the 2008
financial crisis uh I've spent about a
year you know cutting costs generating
Revenue just iteratively focused on
money and you had a Doomsday Clock
actually on the wall yeah is that
something you would recommend to people
it wasn't on the wall it was every every
Friday we would sit down with the
employees and be like we've got we've
got you know 14 months we've got 11
months we've got I think at the worst
case it was like we were down to like
nine weeks
um
it was certainly clarifying I think uh I
only recommend it if you can convince
people on the team that we can't succeed
otherwise people will start
uh packing their bags and looking
elsewhere pretty fatalistic um but I
think I think
the founding team never showed any
indication nor ever had any indication
or belief that we weren't going to
figure it out we were we were very sure
and also we we started sharing We Didn't
Start sharing it when there's like two
months left we started sharing it quite
far in advance
um
and everyone could see that while the
Clock Was ticking down the rate was
getting better and we were making
progress and so it felt like oh yeah
yeah
we are pulling the plane out of the dive
it might be a close thing but like they
could people could see that we were
going to get there so was the pursuit of
profitability ultimately at the expense
of Justin TV's success as a standalone
oh it was it was at the expense of our
growth uh
and then we had this thing that wasn't
growing we're trying to decide I was
profitable but I'm not growing and we're
trying to decide okay what do we do from
here
and
uh
no one thought just pursuing Justin's we
had no good ideas for ideas for what to
do to like
reinvigorate growth of Justin TV per se
and so we had you know Michael they did
a pivot into so much you built some
mobile video stuff which in an era
before before Snapchat and before Tick
Tock pretty good Insight yeah
um
I like Autodesk didn't seem to execute
on the uh the vision of the consumer
video yeah we didn't quite get there but
but like but there was a there was a
there for sure
um
and uh I want to do the video game thing
because I was watching video games on uh
on Justin TV and enjoying it
um but the big pivot from Justin TV to
Twitch like the real difference between
the two companies is not the gaming
versus the uh general purpose thing
that's a superficial change
um and it motivated me to focus on a set
of customers
um
but I think we could have in retrospect
I know why we did the Rebrand and like
but we actually had a debate at the time
whether we needed to do the redrands I
think we probably would have been
successful without it I think the
Rebrand was helpful and it was
uh it made more sense like that uh for
the uh for the company and so it's
probably like you know a good idea I
would do it again but not strictly
necessary would have found some amount
of a similar level of success regardless
and uh
no but the big change the big change was
was
I realized that the important customer
for live was the streamer not the viewer
that
that ultimately for live video unlike
for uh for YouTube
um we we could not say well whatever the
creators will deal with it what matters
to the audience they're just here for an
audience
they weren't really there for the
audience the the audience was there for
them and you have to keep winning the
streamer's business every day because if
you don't they're gonna go stream
somewhere else and now
there's no library of content like there
is for the uh for something like YouTube
and so
you can't just have people show up
create a little bit and leave that like
that doesn't work you need people
creating all the time and so the focus
had to be how do we build something
great for streamers
um and that's why we invented paying
streamers money that's why we like I
went and interviewed a bunch of
streamers and figured out here's what
streamers need
um and that was a that was a much bigger
shift than the gaming part was
building a product that was designed for
streamers first and foremost was the
gaming thing in intuition on your part I
mean you obviously enjoyed watching it
uh or was there I guess as you reach
these conclusions gaming and focusing on
streamers and not the viewers was there
data that backed that up or was it just
an intuition thing that you kind of
realized the gaming thing was purely
intuition I mean you could point at data
like there are a lot of Gamers if I was
to do a McKinsey market research thing I
could be like Oh look The size gaming
industry is very large that's more
increasingly spending more time on the
internet bessemer's memo is uh public
from their investment so you can go look
at all their Market sizing stuff I
actually went back and I found my the
email I wrote that's like it's like uh
two paragraphs long like a like a half
page email that's like here's why gaming
makes sense and it's basically it's the
very abbreviated version of that
argument
um advertisers like gaming you know like
the game companies interest are aligned
with ours so the copyright stuff like I
thought about that but the idea was
purely intuition I really like this I
bet I'm not that much of a weirdo like I
I like popular media if I like watching
this it's likely to also be a popular
media
um
the part that was more data backed was
the streamer part
um
I went and looked and found that there
were about 200 people making gaming
content and
who had any audience at all and I was
like oh if we get
you know if we can convince 180 of those
people to stream on Twitch
we just win like there's just there's
just no it's just unambiguous there's no
way we can lose actually
um and so we just pivoted the company to
be fully focused on that and that I
think was reasonably data driven in the
sense that
I went and like looked at I looked at to
just make the decision about viewer
versus streamer I went and actually got
data and then thought about it um
although
it was certainly informed by having
worked in the space for five years and
like having the intuition to sort of
understand the dynamic of
uh what it would mean to win a streamer
and so the band kind of broke up at that
point Michael went with social cam
Justin left the company around then and
Kyle ran the legacy of what was Justin
TV for a while yeah so we uh we actually
weren't sure whether we wanted to do the
social cam idea or the gaming idea
instead of debate it we were like we're
gonna fund the gaming idea and the
mobile idea is like Skunk Works projects
and then we're gonna set goals and if
they hit the goals we will pivot to them
it was just jamming more ads on Justin
TV to pay for this we are our jamming
words TV that was that was already the
pre-roll mid-roll banner that was
already the plan yeah the plan was
already to extract like we were already
in the we were
Justin TV plan unchanged extract maximum
profit
um
we then but yeah that meant we were
profitable which we could fund like
these projects
um and twitch we hit our goals we hit
like the we hit like I said like a 25
growth a month goal and we were hit like
a 30 growth a month which is great
um and how did you go about actually
doing that was that the work with the
streamers yeah it was just it was the
the
exact process I was talking about of
like oh there's 200 streamers let's call
them
what does it take to convince them I'm
sorry Kevin was one of the very first
people who I think he was the first
person I brought on to my my gaming team
he was my the first time I was like I
need Kevin I was like Kevin uh was our
he was basically all the non-programming
engineering stuff originally
um and I was like Kevin
your mission is to convince people they
need to stream gaming on Justin TV like
go talk to them and get them to do it um
and Kevin is probably one of the single
best beauty people I've ever worked with
and uh he did a very good job of doing
that and like I backed him up with he
would be like Oh They'll switch if we
build this and I'm like great on it and
then we just go build
the thing
um
Michael had took two engineers and built
uh and Justin kind of uh started working
mostly on that project with Michael
building uh social cam
we didn't actually hit the social cam
goals it took them longer to build
Twitch uh the Justin TV gaming was like
literally just built on Justin TV gaming
like we didn't have to build a new
product
we turned out we overestimated how fast
it was it would be to build
uh an entirely new product from scratch
for mobile gaming so that they didn't
hit the growth goals but we felt like
the product they built was promising
enough that it was worth doing the
effort to spin it off and be retrospect
we were right about that too so we spun
that off
um Michael went with it uh Justin hung
around for a few months but like I think
you know
was also feeling the issue something
else and I think wasn't it it's funny
Justin now like loves twitching like
with learned what the product was I
think at the time didn't really
understand or love the gaming streaming
product and so he was like didn't want
to work on it that much which totally
makes sense to me um and then Kyle uh
was figuring out what to do graciously
ran the Legacy business for me for like
uh more than a year I think and then
found uh Colin carrier who was our uh
who was the his replacement
um to run it uh which was amazing
because like that was basically funding
the business so we needed someone good
running it
um and then he went off to start Cruise
I heard you say that people come for the
entertainment but stay for the
relationships within the community what
when did you realize there was something
unique going on from a community
standpoint yeah come for the video stay
for the chat so
uh when I first started building twitch
I was using myself as the Prototype
viewer and I am the type of viewer we've
come to call a strat the strategist
which means I was there because I liked
watching people who are good at the
games that I like to play so I could
learn from them ask them questions stuff
like that almost like a group coaching
session
um
or I could watch Esports and like like
live uh Esports entertainment and that
was also that was also uh great for me
um
it turned out very rapidly though that I
was in the minority strategists make up
about 20 percent
of twitch viewers
80 of people were there because they
like they liked the hanging out they
liked the connection they got from
hanging out with other people in chat
and
talking to people looking you know
watching them it was just rapidly
obvious oh I'm I'm actually not the
Prototype here these other people are
the Prototype is that are those the two
groups yeah you can you can you actually
can subdivide the community group more
finely so we have more second Graphics
underneath that but they're at the top
level there's like are you there for the
entertainment or are you and then
learning or are you there for the
entertainment and then Community
um
and then there's you can you can go
deeper I'm curious like are there any
broad Strokes of the other types of
people it's it comes down to like are
you do you
are you about uh the personality more or
are you about uh the chat Vibe more like
what's the what's the part of being here
that's the most important thing but like
it's a little inside baseball and
fundamentally not that important because
they all benefit from the same like it
you don't actually build different
products for different people yeah so it
doesn't you know it's at some level it
doesn't really matter
um whereas the the learning versus
Community thing is a really important uh
product impacting Insight
um and so that's when we sort of
realized like oh people are there for
the connection okay that's the like real
that's the thing they stick around for
most of our users stick around for
um and so
that was uh that was a pretty deliberate
uh learning from looking at our users
like it wasn't we didn't just make it up
were there non-obvious things that you
did to cultivate the community or
ultimately what is building the product
for the streamer then it became obvious
that they would cultivate it yeah no I
think that that was the that was the
learning from focus on the streamer was
like very very early it's obvious if our
customer is the streamer then our job is
to help them cultivate their Community I
still believe that to be true I don't
think twitch has communities doesn't
have any Community Church has streamers
streamers have communities and when
people get confused and think that oh
the community people on Twitch care
about twitch they don't care about
twitch they care about the streamer and
our job is to
facilitate that
um and it's very egoic I think it's like
you get you're like you're telling the
story that you're the hero the streamer
is the hero our job is to like with the
one of the slogan we came up with for it
later was we play support
like the streamer is the carry we are
support
um and I think that's uh
that's a key like mental model for a
product like twitch
twitch was able to uniquely beat back
competition from a bunch of uh heavily
funded tech companies along the way I
guess what was the feeling Google had a
famous tweet welcome player two uh when
they when they announced their presence
where were you when that happened what
was the sentiment around that yeah so
after we were acquired by Amazon I think
everyone else who was like oh maybe
we'll acquire twitch it's like oh we're
not gonna acquire twitch okay uh we
better launch competitors and So within
like less than a year Microsoft
Google YouTube and Facebook had all
launched
very explicit like twitch competitors
and started spending huge amounts of
money bidding on streamers
um in a very non-sustainable way that
wasn't that was trying to them trying to
buy a critical mass
um of uh of audience
uh which was uh was exhilarating
um I think it was good for twitch like
competition is good it's good for the
service
um yeah we we posted a kind of snarky
tweet they sort of Welcome player two uh
when when uh YouTube launched theirs
um but I think that really was our
attitude which was like
if you can build a better product for
the streamers you're more than welcome
and you should win
um but we think our product's better and
we think streamers are going to choose
us every time
and our strategy to beat everybody was
we had to bid against people and stuff
but like ultimately we let a lot of
streamers walk like we we could have
kept bidding more money
um
and uh we didn't outbid on everything we
updated a bunch of stuff but like not
everything
um and
our Focus was from the very first
beginning how do we just make sure
twitch continues to be the best place
for streamers
um and if we continue to make it so like
they continue to choose us instead of
instead of the competition and I've uh I
remember reading a bunch of some
streamers complaining about to actually
be like basically like oh I want to go
to the you know YouTube except like you
know I feel like they're offering me
more money but uh and I'd go except you
know it's not fair like which has to be
trapped because because all the
moderation tools are so much better and
this is bad I'm like yeah we you mean we
trapped you about with our nefarious
plan of building a better product that
actually works yes I fully admit this is
our our secret plan the rules all along
yes you didn't see it coming but we
would we're gonna build stuff that you
like and then give it to you for free
um yeah so that very diabolic yeah it's
totally diabolical but like that was the
that was the thing like we we won
because our product was better
um and uh
I think that's like a and it was better
in the way people people cared about
there's a lot of nice to have features
um like fun things that people think
they want polls is the best example I
think we actually have a polls feature
now for many many years we did not and
our competition did they had a polls
feature people would complain about this
but the truth is you can run a poll
using like a online like there are many
poll things you can just use on the
internet if you want to
if we screw up chat moderation if we
screw up uh if you're if your
subscriptions don't work well if
discovery isn't good
you can't fix those things only we can
and you don't actually want us to build
a poll you think you do but like the
truth is you don't actually and when you
would confront them with the actual
choice would you like to make a dollar
more per hour or would you like to us to
build launch polls like oh a dollar
obviously what are you talking about
like well that's right okay we're gonna
keep working another thing then how do
you get to those conclusions like when
you're hearing from your users I want
this thing but being able to discern
that they actually don't really want
this thing at the expense of what it
would take you to go do it and is it
actually framing in those terms of would
you prefer an extra dollar or would you
prefer like more Engineers on this yeah
so when I got started with twitch I uh I
came up with a framework for
prioritizing features which is I got out
of talking to a bunch of streamers and
basically
uh asking them why they streamed and
sort of what their goals were and what
what they what they wanted out of it and
we came up with was they wanted Fame
Love and Money
um uh Fame they want to like obviously
reach an audience grow it have more
people watch them get more hours of
video watch basically
um love they wanted to feel positive
social feedback and connection for doing
it whether that's from twitch because
they got invited to twitchcon or because
some uh twitch you know partner manager
reached out or it's from Their audience
saying how great they love the show and
how amazing that was
um and then money they wanted to make
money on the stream and basically if we
built something and there's a secret
fourth thing which is like the video has
to work they want the live video to be
like actually good enough okay cool
that's us let's put that one aside
that's the underpinning that's the
underpinning like that's this table
stack that just has to work uh assume it
does
um
is this thing producing more money more
fame or more love great like we will
prioritize resources against those is it
not
then it's not important and we're not
going to do that
um and
uh that worked because those were the
three most important things and then
once you have that structure you can
kind of it's easy to compare within
money which of these things we think
will be most helpful to make the most
money within discovery which of these
things in Fame which of these things
will help grow audiences the most
um Love is the trickiest one obviously
because love is a little bit less it's a
little more fuzzier and less clearer
than Fame and money are but uh but
ultimately it's like having good
moderation in chat
um having uh experiences for streamers
where they feel they feel loved by by
twitch and that we care about them
Once Upon a Time Google came and made an
offer to buy Justin TV uh before it was
really in the before all the twitch
stuff came to be and ultimately uh you
got far down the acquisition process and
then people on the team failed Google's
uh tests or something they uh Google was
considered an aqua hire and out of our
like whatever I know 30
total people they like had like 10 that
they thought were like Google quality
um and made an offer on that basis and
we were just like
no
uh and in retrospect I remember like
looking at the offer and if they'd
offered us three times more money I
think we would have taken it
um
but
uh but I'm really glad they didn't offer
us three times as much money um same
thing actually happened with Kiko on
Yahoo Yahoo offered to buy Kiko which is
your calendar with a calendar company
for a million dollars in but like in
retention over like four years so like
250 000 a year in signing bonus on top
of a you know mid-level Yahoo engineer
offer and
I'm really glad they lowballed us
because if they hadn't live all this we
might have taken it and like uh
uh we didn't really want to do those we
didn't really want to work for Google or
work for Yahoo we wanted to run the
company it's just it felt like you have
to take if they offered you a win you
could like have to take it
um so I'm so I'm glad they didn't are
there any lessons actually from either
of those stories that are that you could
extrapolate as a as something you would
tell a founder or is it hey those are
the funny situations and the road not
traveled but at the end of the day it's
just there was nothing to be learned
from the individuals I don't really
think I've
I've I've
the only time I've ever used it
someone's like oh I got an acquisition
offer from this company
um
and I talked to them and I'm like okay
this is this is like an aqua hire here's
like here's how it's gonna work like
here's here's how Aqua hires work and
having been through one myself I kind of
like I know what the what the process
will be like a little bit although it
does vary from company to company it's
not that variable
um and so occasionally it's helpful for
advising someone who's in the exact same
situation but other than that there's
not really much there's not much
generalizable from it I don't think this
might be an annoying question that just
uh people in the media and I guess
Venture capitalists ask you but how much
time have you given to thinking about
twitch as a standalone versus within
Amazon I like whether we should have
sold it or not yeah
um well I mean selling it uh worked out
really well for us because uh
it was unrelated let twitch grow on its
own like did they help with bidding for
streamers and like was that an expensive
Capital outlay that wouldn't have been
obvious because the weird thing about
twitch versus Instagram for example is
Instagram it's hard to uh disconnect
Instagram within uh Facebook right
because of all the stuff they did from
an ad infrastructure standpoint and you
know the adoption and promotion and all
that I think it's kind of hard for me to
mentally disconnect the two twitch was
to your point able to operate pretty
Standalone right and so almost you can
you can at least from the outside in
maybe you disagree almost see what the
business would look like
is a CEO for a very long time and it
pertains many of its CEOs for a very
very long time like how you were there
Don Katz at Audible for 10 years eight
years uh eight years
um and
uh
they do it because Amazon actually lets
CEOs be CEOs that's like that's uh it's
the most decentralized of the big tech
companies and uh I think
uh if you want to sell your company and
keep running it I couldn't recommend any
really any big tech company other than
Amazon because it's the only one that
runs under that model
um
I've thought about what it would be like
to have done it separately
um and I actually just think it wouldn't
have been that different the biggest
difference was the reason I sold at the
end of the day is I don't like
fundraising and I knew that if I sold to
Amazon I'd get to keep running my
company
in fact they would demand I keep
printing my company and that but we were
aligned in that I wanted to and they won
they wanted me to so great and they
would make sure that they would they
would fix the I have to raise Capital
every year problem because they're
committing by buying us to fund us
um and
uh or like write out pick to take a big
loss but like they're basically
committing to fund you and so uh that
worked out where I would say it worked
out as planned
um
and so
uh I feel really good about the decision
in retrospect uh
I think I made it more intuitively at
the time than like reasoned and it only
took me a couple years after doing it to
actually even figure out what the math I
was I had been doing subconsciously was
but uh
but I think it was the right to call for
sure what did Amazon do to keep you
around for so long besides just letting
you run autonomously where's that at
that that's yeah what that's literally
the thing that they did I don't you know
if hey hey like you know you know big
tech companies if you want to retain
CEOs after you acquire the company you
have to let them still be the CEO which
means they decide who gets hired who
gets fired
what contracts you sign what products
you launch if you're going to take that
away from them make them go through your
processes there if they're any good at
all as a CEO they're going to leave
because they're not a CEO anymore
they're a division vice president and
that's not the job they signed up for so
FYI if you want to retain CEOs
one weird trick what uh but did they get
strategic value I guess to take it from
their Vantage Point obviously twitch is
a very important asset within there but
the the flip side of of the reason I
think people end up being somewhat
heavy-handed or at least involving
themselves post acquisition of a company
is to try to
make the value greater than the
individual component of it were there
things they did from an integration
standpoint or things that they pushed
that benefited other parts of Amazon
um I mean twitch advertising is sold by
Amazon advertising the third biggest I
think third biggest I don't know if it's
exactly I think it's third biggest
advertising company in the world so
that's that's good that's like the
Instagram Facebook thing in a way um
except I think we provide more value to
Amazon relatively Facebook already had a
lot of AD inventory in feeds
that's basically the identical whereas
twitch Amazon did not have a bunch of
ugc video and uh you know premium gaming
video to like sell against yeah that's
that's them to you I was wondering you
to them if there was anything that oh no
I think actually the revert in the
advertising case unlike Instagram where
it's mostly Instagram benefiting from
the Facebook it advertising machine here
it's much more two-way we open up a new
kind of inventory they don't have access
to otherwise which is good for the
overall Amazon organization but also
good for twitch because we get access to
the big sales team so I think the
advertising thinks the obvious just like
with Instagram it's the obvious
integration point for something like
twitch
um we also do stuff with prime that's
that's been very good that's which are
quite well again very two-way
um
uh and we've launched IBS um which is
our the interactive video service and
AWS service
um very cool like to be able to take one
of the things core things you built and
externalize it as an AWS service is very
cool
um and something you can't do unless you
go to I guess
it'd have to be Amazon Google or
Microsoft basically because those are
the cloud companies
um and we definitely couldn't have done
that on our own
um but yeah a lot of it has been
less deeply integrated
um and I think that that's
except for the points like advertising
which is a really big one where it does
make sense to integrate and I think it's
really to Amazon's credit that they
didn't try to force a bunch of
Integrations
for efficiency reasons
um basically if it's always efficient in
theory it's never as efficient as it
seems in practice so
um uh I I think strategic there are
strategic Acquisitions where you're
buying something as a technology you
know
Apple buys some semiconductor companies
so they can start making chips sure and
that should get integrated it's not it's
not actually a separate product but if
you're buying a product to be part of
your portfolio I actually don't I think
the often the Integra it's the
Integrations are a little heavy-handed
for no good reason
I've heard you say that as you get money
there's a clear declining value to more
money obviously that's true it sounds
like something people just say but
um how did how has that actually
impacted your life having success and
how would you internalize that or I mean
having money is great
um the you know the utility of money
declines approximately with the log of
the amount of money
um you can actually see it on like uh
if you if you plot like you know life
happiness correlation curves and stuff
so every 10x more money you have is like
one incremental unit more so like it's
not that there's no value of going from
one million to 10 million
but it's like 1 million 10 million is
the same as a hundred thousand to a
million and so every going from one
million to two million is like yeah
like it's just not that big of a deal
even though it is a million dollars more
it's like it doesn't change your life
that much
um
uh I am very glad to have money
um because it makes my life directly
better in terms of consumption but most
of all because it allows me to do things
like invest in I've invested in my
friends companies or in other you know
in strangers companies and people I've
met companies and that's being an angel
unless it's really interesting and I
feel like I get to support people and
and help um I got to fund SF New Deal uh
right and like I got to write a check
for a million dollars uh in SF New Deal
uh because I I had someone I knew Lenore
who uh Lenora Estrada who CEO and I
trusted she could step up and run it and
I could make that decision fast and just
write the check um I didn't have to go
try to raise money from other people or
put it together crowdfunding it and uh
that was really valuable I really like
stand by that being that was it was and
it was interesting it was fun for me
um
and uh
uh you get to go do think cool things
for your friends in your community so I
mean
yeah but I guess having money is great
who doesn't like having money
um I don't think it's the it's not the
only thing
um there's a the quote I like about
money is like
you need money like if it's like on a
road trip you need gas but light you
know road trips are not tours of gas
stations and your life shouldn't be a
tour of money making uh activities but
like also like you should think about
where the gas stations are on your road
trip like it's especially if you're
going in on a long big one like you
really don't want to run out of gas
uh over the years you've been
particularly transparent about being a
bad manager initially uh I I there was a
quote you had I was bad at hard
conversations I was bad at good
conversations I was bad at delegating
I'm sorry to the people that worked for
me in the early days uh I assume you're
being too hard on yourself there but
what were some of the things you've
learned about yourself and managing that
uh allowed you to develop into a good
manager so I would say in the early days
I was a pretty good leader already but a
bad manager like I could I could inspire
people with a direction I could
communicate but I I was I always stand
behind when I said there I was a bad
manager
um but I don't think I'm being
particularly harsh
I have yet to meet anyone who is a good
manager the first year they are a
manager I don't think anyone is uh being
a manager is a set of skills like a
thousand different skills and
the you aren't good at some by they're
not like things you just know
automatically like no one's a good skier
the first time they go skiing it is not
possible to be good at first
um
there's only one thing that
distinguishes good Managers from Bad
managers consistently that I've found
some people when presented with this
uh don't like this truth that they suck
and decide that they are in fact good
managers already or that management is
easier that they don't that it's not any
they're as good as they need to be
and some people
realize that management is a skill and
they're good at it yet and decide I I
want to get better at this I want to
learn how to be a better manager and
they every year they're thinking about
how do I get better how do I how do I
how can I become a better more qualified
manager and I can be better at this set
of skills and the people who try don't
always succeed but fair amount dude
Management's not so hard if you treat it
like a set of skills they're not the
hardest skills to learn anywhere it's
not as hard as like you know abstract
math and inventing like new uh
uh you know new theorems about topology
that's that is more difficult than
management but it is it's hard enough
you have to learn the people who
dedicate themselves to it often usually
not always become good managers the
people who don't are universally
terrible
and that is that is just the only thing
that differentiates the people is like
whether you accept into your heart you
need to learn you need to get better at
this thing that's basically it what was
counterintuitive or what what skills
were counter-intuitive to you that you
that that maybe took longer to learn or
just were super surprising as you got
higher and higher uh with more and more
people the thing about management skills
is they're all dumb they don't they're
not surprising when you say them out
loud they sound stupid
um like
uh when you delegate something to
someone you have to actually delegate it
to them you can't delegate it and then
like look over their shoulder and then
tell them they did it wrong like that's
just gonna make them unhappy
um and and and worse they're gonna stop
trying to even do the thing because they
know whether they do it well or badly
you're going to show up and then review
it and then make it the way you would
have done it and then and so why should
they put much they should this their
whole goal is to get it in front of you
so you can correct it
and like that's obvious if you think
about it it's not like that's a dumb
it's a almost dumb to get wrong and
almost everyone gets it wrong when they
first become a manager because it's a
little it it's I guess it's
counterintuitive but I don't even think
it's the counterintuitiveness it's just
you don't most of management is learning
to notice
the Thousand and One things that you can
do wrong and if you thought about each
one of them you would probably come to
the right answer but you just
this doesn't occur to even notice
um
I guess the thing that one
counterintuitive thing about management
that was a surprise to me is that
managing individual contributors on a
team
is not the same job as managing a team
of managers is not the same job as
managing a team of managers and managers
it's not the same job as managing a team
of directors it's not the team same as
managing a team of VPS and that's not
the same as managing a team of spps
every time you add a layer to the
company
your job is like oh it doesn't have
nothing in common but it's fundamentally
quite different
um and that's one of the reasons why
it's so hard to scale teams and people
like sort of
uh hit a scaling limit at some point
it's because if you keep a fast growing
company everyone's like winding up
underwater all the time as layers under
you get more layers under them and that
that directory was doing such a great
job is doing a bad job now they didn't
get bad the job changed from underneath
them and so everyone's in this race to
like figure out the new job before it uh
before it kills them what changes in
those levels of abstraction like I mean
at a high level when you're when you're
so far removed what is so different than
being on the ground
I would say like uh the you have just
the techniques you you have to use
techniques that scale better as you get
that
rather than things that are maximally
effective you want things that are scale
best
and that like the trade-off between how
effective is this individual interaction
how good it how like in the beginning
you need things you need to actually fix
problems and ship code and make things
happen
um and that kind of dynamism is really
important as you get higher and higher
in a hierarchy
you have to figure out how you can make
your time and your effort and your your
energy scale because you can't go do it
Thing by thing and so there's a
trade-off between those two things and
you are uh you need to pick either the
skills that you need are more of the
scale scale level skills
um writing becomes more important when
you're higher in the organization for
example
as you get higher and higher and the
company gets bigger and bigger there's
also a component of transparency and
input of decisioning that you can't be
can't be quite the same as it was in the
early days right like the decisions all
the inputs that went into an individual
decision you can't communicate in Mass
to the totality of the company which I
think could be hard I think that could
be hard when you come from a culture of
like full transparency or it was small
and now you're big and all that did you
did you experience that was that
something that you struggled with of
just like how to balance transparency
with just giving people the outputs of
stuff
yeah I mean there's
people can use the word transparency a
lot but what they mean is input
um you can give transparency for stuff
actually not everything but most things
no matter how big you are a lot of the
time the transparency just makes people
more upset though because what they
really meant when they said they wanted
transparency is they wanted a voice
and that you cannot scale everyone
cannot have a voice on everything
um
in fact almost everyone can't have a
voice on almost everything and uh
that's not true when you're small it
gets true and you're bigger when you're
small you can stay very very
synchronized and as you get bigger
everything has to just desync
um
and
uh
figure creating mechanisms and processes
so that the right people can have input
at the right time is like that is the
art of management and and production in
a company of Greater size and like I
don't know there's no there's no short
answer to that question that like is it
all meaningful but
uh
I think that
the main metaphor I always use for it is
like you have to you have to Shard the
decision making like sharding is any
different programming and from like
databases where you have to find a way
that you can divide stuff up such that
some set of the of the data of the
decisions can be made in this hundred
people and this hundred people in this
group owns everything about that and
they don't have to communicate much with
the other groups and figure out how you
can bottleneck and shrink those uh
between group Communications and and let
people interact in a more asynchronous
way
um and again there's a thousand and one
techniques for that but that's what you
have to figure out how to do what was
something that you you found that even
after uh whatever 10 12 years how long
would you run it uh 17 years 17 years
from from Justin TV and what was
something that you found that was just
you were never going to be particularly
good at and that you needed to augment
uh or or get people around you to to
help you with
I think I uh what I discovered is I
could be good at literally anything
um there was no skill I could not learn
but there were a lot of things where
uh I don't like doing it I'm never going
to enjoy doing it and it's always going
to drain energy from my day
and by the end of the day if I'm doing a
bunch of that kind of work
I'm gonna be grumpy and unhappy and
tired and people interacting with me are
probably not gonna have the best
experience
um and so it was less about what I could
get good at I could get good at almost
anything
at least you don't once
um
it was more about like what could I do
sustainably what what what how do I
manage my job so that I am doing things
sustainably in a way where I am can
consistently do it at high quality uh
when I'm not at my best
um and so for me one of those things is
like I
really
have never been great at interviewing I
don't like interviewing uh new
candidates for jobs
um there's a lot of energy for me to
meet new person and
bring bring that their who they are on
and make a connection and like I like
doing it actually uh
when the either someone I find myself
naturally drawn to which is you know
whatever one in four people or something
like which I don't think is unusual
in terms of the one in four part I think
it's just an unusually high energy cost
for me for the other three
and
I can do it
and I've learned how to do it and I've
but I don't like doing it and so I've
just found ways for that idea was not
the first person I I had this heroic
idea like hiring is super important I
need to be the only one out there you
know interviewing for the new CFO
um
or the new you know head of product or
whatever that turned up a terrible idea
I was grumpy all the time if I did that
um then instead the right thing for me
to do was uh let other people do most of
the interviewing and only interview you
know two or three final candidates
um
and you're sort of admitting that you
don't have to like all the all the work
you do
you tweeted recently management lessons
from the front number seven six one I
don't I didn't go back to look if there
were actually 760 before of the in front
of them but your reports will ask you a
lot of stuff especially in the beginning
like should we do X or Y do not be
tricked this is usually usually
unintentional trap the only correct
response is what what do you recommend
does that tie back to the autonomy of
decisioning and being able to delegate
yeah if you
and this is this is not to say that you
should never answer your reports
questions I'll be really clear uh some
people interpreted me as saying uh in
that uh you should uh when when if you
tell the report like uh you tell you you
if you tell someone like uh
uh
you know hey go go make this thing go
build this thing and they come back and
say oh well there's this trade-off
that's above my pay grade uh you know
the company yeah I have to commit the
company to 20 million dollars of
liability or we have to spend an extra
16 weeks doing this and I kind of think
we should actually commit to the
liability but like
what do you think that's a fair question
that is not
that is not uh
uh it's not their job to figure out uh
you know some individual contributor you
know
a new person on the marketing team is
not the company's job to figure out
should we run this level of risk no no
fair and those often get kicked up the
chain and that kind of taking on a risk
sometimes requires all the way up to the
CEO to sign off totally reasonable
but when you ask someone like hey like
uh like they're designing a new a new ad
campaign
if they come to you and they say like oh
well do you think we should make the ad
campaign's message this message or that
message that is literally the that's the
job of the person who's you asked to go
should we use this creative approach or
that creative approach it's your ad
campaign like you tell me
um because if you don't do that
they don't own the decision
um and the whole point is to delegate
down both the authority to make the
decision and the accountability for the
results of that decision
um
and in very dysfunctional companies
sometimes
uh
people
have learned you they actually don't
have the actually have the authority to
know what no one tells them and that
means they don't want the accountability
and you want to put this entire circle
of them very logically constantly trying
to push off accountability by getting
input and making sure everyone is signed
off and they never have to make a
decision to take any risk and that's
because they know they don't actually
have the authority
and they don't really believe they'll be
allowed to do a good job
um
and I I have empathy for people who are
stuck in that situation it happens even
in good companies it happens sometimes
uh but the the good solution is not then
get everyone to sign off on everything
so it's all safe but rather than
actually Empower people to make
decisions
so it so that they you can actually just
do stuff
you did a great YC talk with regard to
product development
um about how to think about developing
product and talking to your users and
customers users and customers or
competing Services as well as other
people that aren't using your product uh
today we touched on product development
a little bit and the three pillars that
you guys kind of use to think about
um
how
you think about
I guess now it's probably been 10 years
or eight years since you did that talk
how do you think about product
development and actually figuring out
the features that matter at a zoomed out
level maybe not twitch specifically but
just like how do you make these
prioritizations so that
that
uh saying that comes to mind for me for
this is um
planning is a central plans are useless
I think it's like a like Eisenhower or
something some general
um
and it's totally correct because you
if you don't make a plan where you're
gonna get you know from point A to point
B
you're gonna miss so much stuff and
you're you're gonna fail
but once you make the plan no plans
Surprise contact with the Enemy as soon
as you start executing you realize like
oh that didn't actually work this didn't
actually work you have to improvise
um
talking to customers is essential
um but the results of talking to
customers is useless
like it is the talking to the customers
and they're really paying attention that
informs your intuition that then lets
you design the product you're not you're
not delegating the mistake people make
is they're trying to delegate product
design to the customer
and if they were so good at the product
design they would be starting the
company they would be the product
manager they're not good at product
design
they know what problems they're running
into they know the realities of their
business
and what you need to do is you need to
understand them incredibly deeply
not get them to do your job for you so
almost the inverse of the manager
situation don't delegate that to them
um
the this that's one One Direction you
make the mistake is you try to delegate
the product design to the customer no no
you designed the product you talk to
them you get you understand them and you
use that to design the product the other
side of it is you have this you come up
with a great idea and you got to talk to
customers to validate it validate is the
like uh
and I hear we'll talk about validating
product ideas I uh I instantly know that
there's a there's a problem because
once you've had the idea
no amount of talking to any number of
customers will change how good of an
idea that was it is exactly as good as
it is the moment you have it and you can
have a thousand customers tell you it's
a great idea
it was or was not and it will a great
idea and it will or not have the impact
before they've told you or after if a
thousand years will tell you it's a bad
idea same thing doesn't change anything
and unless you are actually throwing
away lots of ideas customers tell you
they don't like them
you're not having any impact at all and
to the most and I've also just I that
never happens
every now and then people valid ideas
and throw them away and actually what's
even funnier there is it's usually when
they do actually throw them away those
videos might have been good the
customers are just bad product designers
and they don't realize that actually is
a good solution to their problem
but
um
the uh
the main thing is
the order is wrong you need to talk to
customers
uh first and then have your great ideas
and so like there's this uh idea from
the rationalist community online that I
really like holding off and proposing
Solutions
um
holding off on proposing Solutions is
one of the key product design skills
because you have to like know there's a
problem and not come up with the
solution long enough to actually go like
gather some data and think about it um
because once you come up with a solution
you're it's actually your brain is like
attached to it it's really hard to like
let go some people can do it but it's
surprisingly difficult
there's a uh I want to talk about more
about decisioning and one as it relates
to
um when you had four co-founders Kyle
Michael Justin and yourself in a room
you mentioned there was ultimately kind
of a war of attrition on decisioning
that it was whoever was Last Man
Standing kind of got the got the vote
we had a real hybrid model so we would
we would have uh these like epic debates
which were mostly useless and sometimes
we would do the thing of like the person
who like had the most stamina but often
it was just like
there's this other thing happening which
like whoever just did stuff they got
their way too
like uh that was Kyle's main move but
actually it was my move and a lot
Michael's moves too like we'd argue
about it and then we'd uh we'd go off
and like all just like do stuff and
actually I would say in retrospect
it's a little bit of the planning as
essential plans are useless thing we
could the arguments could have been less
contentious
and we could have probably shortened the
debates but they were valuable and we
would we would game it out we would
argue it out extensively we would hear
from all the sides and the person who's
in charge of that would go make a
decision to make stuff happen and
actually that's actually in
retrospective
relatively functional process
um because there was a distribution of
authority and accountability
although it it maybe was an unpleasant
it was an unpleasant but kind of
effective approach
as I would say it was like a high
unpleasant medium effective I wouldn't
really recommend it as a you can do
better there's more Pareto optimal
outcomes but like
but it's better than the stuff that's
ineffective
one one question on uh I guess just
because it's been a big debate uh of
late is the remote work thing and now
having lived through Justin TV and
twitch and seeing all the discourse
online you're uh you're working with Y
combinator now like what's your what's
your perspective on remote work and
decisioning that specific question I
guess you had tweeted out my observation
you can build a two by two for workplace
environments remote local and
hierarchical versus egalitarian there is
an island of stability out and deep and
remote and hierarchical uh what did you
mean by that and what's your perspective
on remote so the island of stability is
an idea from like the periodic table
where like as hell elements get heavier
and heavier they become unstable but
there's a theorize we've yet to
synthesize in one of these elements as a
theorized island of stability way out at
like a very high Neutron proton count
where suddenly the elements get stable
again for a little bit
um uh but there's like but in the
in-between options are all bad
um and are unstable and intensely
radioactive
um and I I've seen I I know a couple
companies that are very effective remote
and what differs the way they differ
from the traditional Valley culture is
it's not uh distribution of authority
everybody like you know is a autonomy
everyone figure out what to do on their
own it's like the Army like there's
there's delegation there's delegation of
authority but it's not this delegation
of authority and distribution of
authority are not the same and
uh
they are all over
auditing and follow-up and interactions
and documentation and you have to
document your work and you submit it and
you can you can build
a mechanism and a culture that works
remote
um but the valley approach I think I
think of it kind of economically in its
most extreme of like the Google Vibe of
like
yeah like no real accountability like
directly like because we don't really
know what's good and like go experiment
and try stuff and like maybe it'll work
and like no real urgency to like launch
stuff fast
that that does not work remote it works
okay in person because there's sort of
this weird implicit social pressure
thing that gets used in place of
official
uh methods to like manage stuff
but once you take that away and you
don't have the official thing either
it's just like bad uh and so
there's the silica the valley culture
works there's a reason why like Silicon
Valley's taken over like you know it
didn't evolve for no reason but you
can't take that culture and Transplant
it into a remote work environment and
expect it to work
um
and I think we'll slowly sort of like
you'll start to see models that'll be
like oh you're on this month you're on
this model you're under that model
um
uh and I think that that will uh
uh I think that will that'll be good for
us actually well they'll if you really
care a lot about remote you'll go work
at a company there's a remote culture
that works
um
I actually like love the in-office thing
uh I love being able to be remote
sometimes but like
uh
I just I enjoy being around my
co-workers I enjoy people to see them in
the face I like the organic parts of it
um but I know not everybody does
um and I'm really happy that they get to
go work at a remote environment that
hopefully has a functional not
dysfunctional remote culture
goals and okrs versus intentions
you prefer to focus on intentions than
okrs rather than being tied to specific
goals can you elaborate on that I mean
that's that's when we're on a personal
basis than on a on a corporate basis
like at a corporate basis goals are very
important like you need to actually
setting goals as a I could probably give
an entire hour-long talk on like setting
goals and the trade-offs in various ways
to do that but uh at an individual level
um
setting goals for yourself can be fun
but ultimately goals are usually a way
to coerce yourself or whip yourself into
doing a thing you don't want to do you
should have set a goal and like that's
why you need them in the corporate
environment people have to sometimes be
a little bit coerced into doing
something that's less than the thing
that they want to actually do but it's
important to the company even though
it's not the most interesting exciting
to them personally and you're trying to
artificial excitement and fun
it can be inspiring it could be exciting
to try to get a goal to it doesn't have
to be always a whip there's a carrot
there too but even carrots are coercion
like ultimately it let the intrinsic
thing itself you're you're
using reward or punishment like
operative conditioning on a dog to get
it to Tran to do what you want
there's a place for that but like
I try not to like
coerce myself all the time
um and I find that an over focus on
goals like goals are set with your
intellectual
like top-down analytical mind and if
you're good at setting them you can be
effective with it but like your internet
you're like top analytical mind is only
so good and
it's easy to set a goal that is not it
it's like related to what you wanted to
do but not quite what you actually
wanted to do and then that's very
dangerous because it you can spend years
sometimes pursuing this and achieving
and succeeding
only to find out oops I didn't actually
that goal was that was like sort of
right but it missed this important thing
and now I'm like I have to actually go
way back and start over
um and so I mostly think about it in
terms of like uh
you know I really concrete one like
don't set a weight loss goal
uh set an intention about uh wanting to
be strong and healthy
and acting in accordance with that
um and
it's creating an infrastructure to
support you and doing that well
um this is the book I think about on
this a lot is the score takes care of
itself
Yeah by Walsh that's that's got books
great and I think it really it's for
those people from Reddit it's the idea
of like what
you the score in the game is literally
irrelevant if he's a football coach and
you ignore
the score score like screw that like uh
uh what's important is
did you practice did you do the practice
you needed to do or did you everyone
show up to practice they give they give
practice they're all
and if they if you they did that you're
gonna win or lose the game
that will that that will take care of
itself and I find that's very true for
for goal setting
um
the goals tend to focus you on the score
or creating a score you're you're going
to create a way to score yourself
and that's not necessarily the best way
to do it I I don't know if we have an
hour to do the uh the setting goals for
a company thing but is there a short
primer on how you think about setting
goals or okrs for companies uh
uh no like uh let me see some if I have
any maxims about goals
um
obviously it sounds like focusing on
inputs versus outputs is uh no you need
a blend of input and output goals
because the output goals keep you honest
and the info goals keep you focused uh
I'd say
uh
there's a lot of different kinds of
goals you said for different kinds of
reasons and the most important thing is
to be kind of clear with yourself like
one goal except for twitch was like I
want us to have a million people earning
money on Twitch in five years 2016.
I set a goal we had like at the time I
think 15 000 people earning money
ten thousand something like that and I
was like it was ten thousand and I said
go I wanna have a million people earning
money
on Twitch by the end of 2021 and we hit
it because of covet we hit it actually
early 2021 which I'm very proud of we I
call that weirdly accurate but I didn't
really call it I I uh God I sound like a
hippie like I manifested it right like
by just saying that to the company and
having people think about that
uh
it generated things like other people
inventing things like the affiliate
program
well if we're gonna have a million
people earning money we have to have a
really easy way for people to sign up to
earn money and so we created the
affiliate program and like
and then a bunch of other things like
that right
um and
that's one kind of goal that's like a
five-year goal that's like I had no idea
how to achieve it was very output
oriented and supposed to be sort of an
inspirational goal but then you also set
goals like you know this quarter we need
to get our uh you know the number of TPS
reports filed up by 17 and those goals
can be very effective and important also
um
you know and I I think it's like uh
uh
it's the
they're useful for different things
they're motivating to different people
in different contexts and you should
just not confuse
each of the goals for each other
I know you're a big believer in coaches
and that a coach will pay for itself as
soon as you can afford it I guess maybe
can you tell the story of your coach and
then ultimately why you think it's
important how you go about assessing a
mentor or a coach along the way yeah I
think I got very lucky so you know with
my coach uh he was a introduced to me by
Stuart alsop uh who's our on our board
um the yeah and it was our first in you
know PC investment
um and uh when I gave CEO shortly after
he uh he recommended I start working
with Jose
um and I said all right I'll give that a
try
um
and I was honestly a little skeptical at
first but I was like
uh I guess I took getting better at
being a CEO very seriously and if this
thing could help I wanted to give it a
give it a shot
um and
Yoshi has had taken his previous company
public who had been a CEO before and
then he pivoted into wanting to do
coaching and I feel very lucky I got
someone who had that level of background
because
I think it's very hard to coach a CEO if
you haven't lived seen been part of that
I don't know if you had to be a CEO
exactly but if you haven't at least been
an executive or you know a board member
or something if you haven't been part of
those decisions it's hard to give to do
good coaching
um
coaching is valuable because it it
creates a space where you
you uh get to have someone who has no
incentive other than helping you
hold a mirror up
for you to what you're saying what
you're doing what your goals are and
helping you and what your intentions are
and helping you live more in accordance
with those and notice what you're doing
better or doing worse and there's a bit
of coaching where it's like literally
just advice like uh
uh you know how
what what are the what are tactical
tricks to handle this given situation
but honestly like that's like the the
less important side of coaching and
mentorship the more important side is
like you're almost uh
you're learning the questions they ask
and you're learning to ask their
questions of yourself consistently
um
the
you know you have a coach that is you
you have to really come I think the the
way to think about coaching is sort of
like uh fine selecting a good coach a
little bit so I think a therapist
reflecting a good
um you know a good partner or something
on a on a startup a good co-founder
you know it's working when you have more
like positive surprises than negative
ones you know where it's working when
you feel you're growing you're you know
the things you learned there you find
yourself repeating to other people
um and uh and so they definitely
recommend it but I also think that a lot
of coaches aren't that good and so like
there's a process of looking and
selecting how do you go about assessing
the relationship and make it is it just
are you getting I'm a worst person to
ask I got very lucky number one great
one I'm one for one I don't know what to
tell you like it's like people who like
met their sweetheart yeah high school
sweetheart and they were like the person
for them and it's just it's great and
they're deliriously happy with that
person 30 years later it's like that's
amazing for you but like not an
actionable plan for anyone else yeah
hard to explain yeah so actually I have
very you need I have great advice about
how to go about learning how to build
product because I sucked at it I I
didn't get it right a bunch of times
you know I actually think later Drew I
love Drew but I bet he gives bad advice
to startups about how to go about
finding your very first glimmer as a
product Market fit because he happened
to build the right thing true house your
house yeah yeah Drew managed to build
the right product
just like
directly he just directly somehow I
think he's very obviously very good at
product but like he just did it oh yeah
nobody does that like that's what I feel
about Twitter today yeah
you can't you can't advise anyone if
you've done like that's you don't know
how to figure how to get from failure to
success because you never spend any time
in Failure
um Drew has a lot of great advice about
scaling a company uh because he's had to
struggle with that
I want to go back in time so you were a
part of the first original YC batch
which also was Steve Huffman Alexis
Ohanian of Reddit uh Sam Altman as well
as you look back on the success of the
group of people uh that came out of that
how much do you put that just the people
innately the insights and Lessons
Learned right place right time some
other variable I'm not thinking about
I mean I certainly think you know I have
to we all have to credit Paul with like
being an incredible mentor to all of us
um and like really
I do think you know leveling us all up a
little bit like I I absolutely don't
think it's a coincidence but I also
think
this is true of YC today it's true of
every Elite University
selection effect system it's like this
massive part of it and it's not just
it's not that so much that YC was some
brilliant filter or that filtered out
the best people it's like who thought in
2005 remember in 2005 when I graduated
it was the smallest computer science
class that Yale had graduated in years
because uh
the tech that the tech was over
anyone who is like reading Paul Graham's
essays thought it was a good idea to
start a startup in 2005. I thought it
was a good idea to go take a risk on a
something like YC like that seemed like
that it drew in people who
turned it would turn out that that was a
a good like trap for people who turned
out to be uh ambitious and talented and
a good vintage to be starting companies
it was great
it was very counter uh narrative which
is always the best time to be starting
right we're starting at the bottom and
so yeah YC classes of like 050607
particularly like before the density is
a little higher I don't know that's
actually true like that is pretty high
later too but like
it certainly pulls in a lot of
uh it pulled in a lot of uh very
talented people because
uh it was
it wasn't prestigious yet so you only
did it if you were like really committed
to wanting to do a startup because even
though that sounded like even though
everyone was telling me it was a bad
idea to do that
um and I think that's like
uh
uh that's actually all still the best
reason to start a startup um fortunately
starting a startup is so painful that
mostly that people still do it unlike a
lot of things that people do for fun uh
because they're supposed to starting a
startup is so painful that most people
just select out correctly because unless
you like buying your paying economy size
they don't really recommend it
what what did what did Paul do uniquely
well in those early days I mean the
whole institution he started has
obviously lasted and but Paul's
supervised superpower by far his
superpower like he's Paul's very smart
good a lot of things but it's by far
superpower is you somehow walk away it's
everyone this is me but also Justin and
also everyone else I talked to another
YC you somehow walk away from the
conversation with Paul believing
we are
the shed we are smart
capable and we're going to take over the
world and the only thing standing
between us and taking over the world is
we have to like go grind even harder we
but like Paul believes in us but it's
not
what's happening is like Paul believes
in you so you believe in yourself but
it's not actually but somehow he doesn't
he doesn't feel like Paul Believes In Me
it feels like
Paul just sees that I'm obviously
extremely talented and capable and like
I mean I'm just I'm the only issue maybe
I'm aiming too small should we be aiming
bigger
but it feels like he's just noticed this
fact that now you can see two
and that is such a gift to be able to
give to people
because I think I think that did what it
gave us was the most important thing
that startup Founders need and I think
that anyone doing anything ambitious
needs
which is the like gumption to keep going
when things aren't looking so hot Midway
through
uh and Paul really convey like Paul's
that's that Paul gives that to people I
think that's like that is by far his his
greatest Talent which is which is funny
because he has a lot of other talents
but like that's uh that's a big one
so so it was you Alexis uh uh Steve
Huffman Paul like was it Sam Altman was
it obvious at that
point in time that something special was
in the room or was it hey uh we're in
the room with that no no absolutely not
I mean
yes in the sense that like
I thought everyone seemed smart and good
but and and like are you coming from
Yale and I'm sure yeah there are good
people there yeah and I'd I'd been in
several Elite programs in my life where
there's other smart people
uh
I I had that sense more like joining
Tech in San Francisco at that time
like in Boston and Cambridge not really
when we moved to San Francisco
it was like oh
oh I'm in the middle of like Ground Zero
of something
um
and it actually wasn't the first batch
the first batch was just like some weird
summer program but when the batches kept
getting bigger and I would meet the new
Founders and like more companies
and they had a building as much
everyone's in the and like it's like oh
oh where this is something the thing is
happening around me that became very
clear about like 2000 by early 2007
absolutely but at first no it was just
just it just seemed like a thing
it was cool I was really grateful I got
to do got to raise money and like start
a company didn't have to go like live
with my parents to like
start in their basement
was it obvious Sam was going to be the
leader of the Free World
uh no
it was obvious Sam was an incredible
deals guy like he was he was somehow
convincing the uh phone companies to
give his startup that like didn't really
have a product like deals I still don't
know how he did that and like he's doing
the same thing like convincing Microsoft
to like you know buy his fusions power
like Sam is still an incredible deals
guy obviously uh but that that was that
that was the only obvious thing about
Sam at the time was like that he was he
was ambitious but we had most of us were
pretty ambitious and he was great at
great great deals guy
you said something interesting once the
only reason you ask about Tam is to
understand the Ambitions of the founder
uh can you tell me why why you think
that why you approach investing in that
way or why you approach thinking about
Tam in that way what was the Tam of uh
live reality television
uh whatever Justin was willing to pay
you at the time yeah yeah like nothing
basically um and yet that's pretty live
streaming shows a pretty pretty big
business
um
I ask people about Tam a lot and I'll
push them on it but it's like it's
because
what you're trying to figure out is
do they have a story
they might have a lot of holes in it and
like we're like questionable assumptions
we're like they're trying to build
something really great and big
or do they have a story that's like oh
yeah yeah I well no don't worry about
the Tam we're just gonna flip this to
Google uh in two years once we hire the
talent like that's a really bad sign
companies don't get built by people who
who are looking for the exit
you want people who are looking to build
something big something great
um
because they even built something
medium-sized you have to be trying to
build something really great and if
you're if you don't if you're not if
you're aiming for the aqua hire you're
probably not even gonna get that
um
and uh and so it's a very important
question but the point is not to like
that you can actually analyze the Tam
per se
and I think that's a little different
for more established Founders especially
it's a little different in places where
there's more you need more commitment up
front more Capital up front to get going
because the other thing I look for is
that there's Founders who there's this
trap you can wind up in where you you
start is there is the
if you're building for a customer
that doesn't exist or like that hates
buying software or that like doesn't
want to doesn't want any anything to do
with this the whole thing that's bad so
like
I don't care if your thing credibly
you know isn't is every developer on
Earth is actually going to use your
product but building software for
developers is a good plan there are a
lot of developers and they spend a lot
of money on software and so even if
you're wrong about your exact thing it's
going to be okay like the software
developer Market is big
if you're building market for software
that's like really for public school
librarians that's the only people and
you're like and I'm pushing you I'm like
dude isn't this bigger than that you're
like no no it's for public school
librarians
I'm really worried for you because even
if you like crush it
that's not actually they don't nothing
wrong with Librarians they don't even
buy they don't like buying software in
the first place
and there aren't that many of them so
like
that's maybe not a great idea and so
like and and Founders can kind of get
trapped in these ideas where they're
building okay businesses targeted at
very small groups of people who don't
want to buy their product
um and so it's more about your
just in theory if you executed like
crazy and figured out six things that we
didn't even think of in this room
on a pivoted idea that's like halfway
only halfway connected to your idea
would that be a big business no okay
maybe maybe we should change ideas yeah
uh there's two options for companies you
can either be generally you can either
be early or late uh and I I get the
feeling being early is probably better
how do you think about timing a timing a
market and making sure that you're there
to ride that wave and the differences
between being too early and too late
you're
every startup that wins pretty much not
everyone but like 98 uh
is too early
because if you're not too early you're
usually too late because if you think
about it you're trying to like there
there is some optimal day
like literally there's probably a day
where like
start if you start the company on this
day
everything will be available as you need
it there will be sufficient Bama through
your idea they'll be sufficient this to
you know the modernization techniques
will work the distribution will be in
place
but if you start it on that day someone
else when everything actually becomes
available everyone else someone else
will have started it a year earlier
stupidly
just by random chance because every idea
is getting started over and over again
and they will be in motion and they will
have infrastructure and they will have a
product built and suddenly their product
will be working and you will be too late
and so what you're trying to do is
like so if you think about it for Justin
TV we were too early bandwidth was too
expensive to make our business work uh
and almost honestly most people couldn't
even watch didn't have good Advantage
but we've been watched reasonably
quality live video and the video ad
Market didn't exist
we didn't have a business it was
important but we but but there were
other startups that tried to compete
with us several that started later
and they just got destroyed because we'd
built Global live video infrastructure
for the past four years
and they hadn't
and so
you know from when the start gun went
off on like oh no no the business works
now
there's just how do you catch up with
someone with a four-year Head Start
still led by the founder CEO still like
grinding super hard trying to make it
work like you're just screwed I mean so
a big part of it is if you if you have
faith that your thing is going to work
and the pieces are going to come into
place the question for startups is how
do you survive
that's why you read so much about like
YC's advice to like be a cockroach like
don't don't don't be a uh uh graceful
swallow be a cockroach because you're
usually too early and you just have to
survive and survive
Until It's a combination of like you
find the secret thing but often it's
actually like you didn't change anything
the market caught up with the future
that you saw that you can't ever time
exactly right and suddenly your thing
that wasn't good is good and boom like
Airbnb is a good example of that
actually I think like they they had a
product and yes they did iterate and
they did figure stuff out but like a big
part of it was like people got
comfortable with the idea of like host
listing stuff on the internet and
renting through uh renting other
people's stuff uh and
and the business that didn't work and
wasn't good became a business that did
work and became it was good and I think
that's a it's a very common pattern
talking about cockroaches and you guys
were certainly that with Justin TV
um
frugality uh being
something that's important but maybe not
a virtue uh that that being able to use
frugality I I've written down here I
assume you said it because it's in
quotes reality isn't a virtue in itself
speed is
how do you think about the balance of of
speed and frugality and the ability to
execute the other thing I think you said
the blast radius of startups is low
which is to your advantage as a startup
yeah I mean frugality
for
uh Amazon one of Amazon's core uh like
like Amazon
Amazon's leadership principles the Alp
um one of them is frugality
um it's about how leaders should be
frugal and
inside of Amazon there's a saying about
like yeah yeah frugality but don't you
don't are going to avoid for pity
um because frugality and frippidity are
near and far aligned
um
because you need to be willing to spend
money
and to invest for something that's
important to do something but also but
wasting money is very bad
and the difference between one man's
investment is one man's waste is another
man's investment and vice versa
the real thing that kills startups in
terms of spending money is usually not
overspending on like bandwidth or like
server capacity or like even marketing
obviously you don't run marketing it
doesn't work it's inefficient but like
what uh what kill startups is hiring you
hire too many people
and that does kill you because you have
this High burn rate and eventually run
out of money the burn rate kills you but
it also kills you because more people
means more slow
um and speed is the essence and like
hiring is not in alignment with speed
um speed isn't alignment with speed and
so there is a point where you do need to
hire more people to go faster but like
it is later than people think it's less
hiring than people think and so
I think a lot of the advice to startups
about for frugality is really better
framed as advice about you need to be
going fast and that means don't grow
your team too much that creates a lot of
drag
what what Drew you back to YC as a as a
partner now like what was you were at
Amazon for a long time what made you
want to I've always wanted to be a YC
partner like I uh I don't know if it's
like my forever job but like I watch my
friends go through it I love advising
startups and I was like oh that looks
fun I want to try that and so I just
always had the intention of going and
doing YC for a year as a partner
um just honestly because it's like a
life experience and I'm really enjoying
it so far I think there's a chance I do
it more ongoing but I also I'm enjoying
like having a little bit more freedom
post stopping SEO and the job it's a
real job at YC like you know it's not
not like being a CEO of 2000 company but
like it's a job
um and so we'll see if it's like the
long-term thing but no I just always
wanted to and then once I was free I was
like oh well there's a badge coming up I
guess I could go do that and so there's
more of almost more of an Impulse thing
less than like a I have some like plan
of wanting to do it what do you think's
allowed the institution to survive in
the way that that it has uh it's
obviously scaled quite a bit over the
years
um I mean YC is like a uh
a little like a university yeah uh and
like universities it has a very strong
Network effect the smart people want to
hang out with some other smart people
and want to be at the place where the
other smart people are and that like
creates a positive feedback cycle that
allows it to scale and grow it makes it
hard to
Harvard was the first University in
America weirdly still the most
prestigious that's weird like I think
Yale was the second University founded
in America
second or third most prestigious like
that's weird uh
uh I think that exact same Dynamic
happens here and like it's not a and
unlike the university is YC is designed
to
Ben can scale up a lot more and so
there's the second place gets is a
little bit smaller
um because people can move around more
much more easily now right if uh if
Harvard had been founded in the Nero or
anyone could have flown anywhere
and had an attitude of scale as much as
possible it's not clear there is
University 234 immediately
um
and I think YC has been sustained
because it's
always had a long-term mindset like I
remember Paul telling me like saying
like you're two or three and our biggest
advantage in the long run is going to be
very eliminate the Alumni network that's
what YC is really building and they call
them alumni right it's not
that's that's a different attitude
um
and uh
and so he was thinking that far ahead at
the beginning
I had another question about YC and I oh
what do you what do you think the
biggest constraint on startups today the
reason that we don't have
uh 10 more stripes or a hundred more
Twitches or 30 more uh airbnbs is it
because is it Founders is it ideas is it
capital sufficiently talented people who
who want to take on the pain of starting
a company yeah like pretty much
exclusively there's lots of capital
available
um
I will say there's there's a uh there's
definitely
uh
of missing
there's like a few missing gears in that
process of like there are people who
should get access to the capital and if
they did they would be successful and so
there isn't enough Capital there's
plenty of capital there's more than
enough Capital but like there's lots of
people who think they should have the
capital many of them are wrong some of
them are right and the system is like
pretty efficient but there's definitely
some number of people who like
just don't get funded and they should
because they
because they're bad at pitching because
they don't present
because because on the surface it looks
looks wrong because because they they
can't show you that they should get the
funding
um
and I think that's a shame and like
one of YC's mission is to find and fund
those people we can't do it perfectly
were you were you bad at pitching or did
you just hate it I was okay yeah that
wasn't great
um
I would be a lot better at pitching now
and I think I would enjoy it more uh
weirdly at twitch after we sold
I I get to practice sales a lot around
with the game game companies and and
advertising and I and also I started
investing
and I uh
there's no way to do this but like if I
could give every founder I should
probably have them like go be an
investor for two years and then go pitch
their company because it's suddenly I'm
like oh I see what I was doing wrong
like now I know I've sitting on the
other side of the table I'm like oh oh
no wonder that person like passed my
startup I was I was explaining it all
wrong I didn't understand their
incentives I didn't understand how they
saw the world and so the most important
thing you can do is a
like
I wonder if this would work if I was at
if I was to go back and give earlier
Emmett advice like how to pitch better
what I would tell them to do is like go
find some VC who you're friends with who
like sees good companies and be like I
will give dude some due diligence for
you for free
if you let me sit in on like
you know a month of pitches and hear the
discussion afterwards
because I think I would have been like
oh I know how to
I know how to do this I would have
figured out how to pattern match like
the problem is like starter Founders
have only usually have only seen their
pitch how do you get good at something
that you've only you've only seen your
performance at you don't know what good
looks like
um and I think that's the so yeah that's
if that's what I would that's what I
would tell my prayers have to go to the
information's gotten so much better uh
about VC I mean one of the things I I
want to do is try to sort of give
elements of how I think or rethink and
operating but the pitches it's it's
almost a voodoo science in and of itself
Are there specific things that you
learned in pitching the EA or whatever
that you would there's
um
there's things you can write down that
people have written down a thousand
times like you know templates and stuff
sure
they're all wrong and they're all bad
actually you temp pitch templates
whether they're pitches for VC money or
like product things templates are the
enemy there's certain like
aspects you can do but every pitch is
unique because it wasn't unique
you don't have any unique Insight like
your company is unique there's a there
are generalizable principles and rules
but there's a template you can go off of
and so
and yet you know it when you see it and
there's like there's there is there's uh
I think pitching is one of those things
where it's uh it's very much medicine
you know that idea the idea of like a
skill that you learn through organic
doing
there is no training for pitching
that would be more effective than just
like watching a bunch of pitches and
then the honest brutal discussion
afterwards about like whether they think
that's a good idea or not
and participating in that
um
and unfortunately I don't think anyone's
brave enough to put
there's no I don't know how the you want
to create a piece of content that would
be like incredibly valuable to founder
Center to pitch record three months of
every every partner pitch and every
pre-partner pitch for every company and
the discussion afterwards and the
decision and publish that
and like then edit it down so like you
cut out the dead time edit it down and
just have people watch that as a as a uh
as a uh as a course that would work like
people would get a lot better at
pitching
um unfortunately I don't think the
company should like that I think the
partners would be really be awkward but
like
you need to create some system like that
um because that's the that's the only
way to get it's like trying to learn how
to like cook from a cookbook you learn
to cook in a kitchen
you don't learn to pitch watching a
YouTube video you learn to pitch
they're from a PowerPoint you learn to
pitch in the
in the pitching room that's interesting
uh shifting gears artificial
intelligence
um I get the feeling you might have some
concerns about the path we're on and
some elements of how things are playing
out is that I mean so I guess I have I
have a very specific concern about AI
like generally I'm very Pro technology
and I really believe in the sort of like
uh
the upside's usually outweigh the
downsides everything's technology can be
misused you should usually wait and you
should wait until you've eventually as
we understand it better
you want to put in regulations but like
regulating early is usually a mistake
when you do do regulation you want to be
making regulations that are about
reducing risk and and for uh Innovation
and I actually uh authorizing more
Innovation Innovation is usually good
for us
um
I sort of have a very very high level
like syllogism about like AI that I've
come to believe I think is like correct
it's like if
we can build if you consider
intelligence to be the capacity to solve
problems
from a given set of resources to a given
goal
we are building things that are more and
more intelligent
like that we've built an intelligence
it's kind of amazing actually we built
something like definitively it may not
be the smartest intelligence but it is
unintelligence it can solve problems so
we've built something that can solve
problems like arbitrary problems from
arbitrary resources
and make arbitrary plans
at some point as it gets better
the kinds of problems that we'll be able
to install
solve will include uh programming chip
design Material Science uh
power production
um all the things you would need to
design an artificial intelligence
at that point you'll be able to point
the thing we've built back at itself and
this will happen before you get that
point with humans in the loop it already
is happening with humans in the loop but
that Loop will get Tighter and Tighter
and Tighter
and faster and faster and faster until
it can fully self-improve itself
at which point
it will get very fast very quickly
and a thing that is very very very smart
and you generate something that is very
good very intelligent and by intelligent
again I mean this capacity to solve
problems there's people there's lots of
ways people that work it's a it's an
English word which means it has no one
definition but I have that in that sense
I mean that kind of intelligence
and that kind of intelligence is just an
intrinsically very dangerous thing
because intelligence is power human
beings are the dominant form of life on
this planet pretty much entirely because
we're more and smarter than the other
creatures when was the last time
intelligence came into you know entity
at this level right and within humans I
think people get confused between these
two different things within the band of
human intelligence intelligence is not
the most important thing humans have a
lot of other attributes but intelligence
is a very important thing for people we
have a lot of other gorillas are more
intimidating as a species than we are
but Thrillers did not build this studio
and humans are like humans are dangerous
as hunters for example because we're
smart we do things like you know crowd
The Woolly Mammoth off cliffs and set
traps and like uh
uh human be we have we have whites in
our irises it's the exact balance uh of
white to color uh is what communicates
what we're looking at other primates
have black eyes because they don't want
the other people other creatures to see
them so try not to give away information
we have the white uh around the IRS
because it lets you tell what other
people are looking at you basically have
this Eerie ability to do it you know
exactly what other people are looking at
imagine hunting these creatures are
hunting you and you see one of them
and one of them can like
indicates that they want to cross the
way that they just saw a deer by like
looking at the deer
and there's no Sound Exchange at all
it's just purely this like it's like
you're gonna be pretty smart to do like
big very strong theory of mind to do
that
if you build something that is a lot
smarter than us not like somewhat
smarter again within humans the smartest
people don't rule the Earth obviously
um
but like it's much smarter than we are
as we are than like dogs right like a a
big jump
that thing is intrinsically pretty
dangerous because
if it gets set on a goal that isn't that
that uh
like the the the
instrumentals first instrumental
instrumental convergence the first
instrumental step towards achieving that
goal is we'll go first step one if this
is easy for you because you're really
just that smart well step one just like
take over the planet right like it's
like then I just have control over
everything and then and then step two
solve my goal can you define
instrumental convergence for those that
didn't sit through three and a half
hours of me talking to Ellie yeah so
it's real convergence is this idea that
like uh
uh often when you're trying to achieve a
goal step one is to achieve a
instrumental goal along the way it's
like if you want to like for example
like uh
uh paper clips is the one yeah yeah so
uh no I'm thinking more like an
instrumental instrumental convergence
I'm trying to give an example from where
it happens to people in their people's
lives um oh in chess
um your actual goal is to Checkmate them
but like along the way to check making
them check making them most the time one
of the things you want to do is take
their pieces now you could not take
their pieces there's probably I bet a
really a really good chess player
against the kind of mediocre one could
Checkmate them without taking any pieces
just like trapping their their but like
that's like even more impressive but
like generally speaking if you're just
trying to
win a game of chess taking their Queen
taking their pawns taking taking their
pieces is a good idea it like makes it
easier to Checkmate them and so I can
predict something about almost anyone
any good chess player they'll take a
bunch of their pieces they'll take the
other person's Queen eventually probably
um in the same way you can predict uh
that corporations uh
uh that want to expand into a new market
there's an instrumental goals like step
one they'll probably hire people in that
market it's like just predictable
and in general if you want to accomplish
most goals like big goals Step One is
like accumulate a lot of money and power
like if you have if you have a goal of
uh changing the world
it accumulating money and power or
accumulating followers who like care
listen to you and will do what you say
these things are like Obviously good
first steps even if you don't even if
you didn't even know what the next goal
was they would be good first steps and
if you know what it is they're
definitely good for steps
step one if you can achieve it along the
way to to achieving any Big Goal yeah
paper clips is the traditional one
um is first just if you if you can pull
this off which like you can't humans
can't do this we don't think of goals
like this because we're not capable
enough but if you could pull it off step
one would be like well first I'm just
gonna like
literally just make sure I have total
control over everything at all times and
then step two I'll like do whatever it
is step two do the thing easy I already
have control over everything no one can
stop me I have accessed all the
resources simple
um
and I think people just don't it's hard
it's hard to people don't imagine
sufficiently capable
as sufficiently capable
um
and then so then and some people some
people have this idea like oh what if we
just don't give it goals well first of
all we are giving it goals people are
already building agents but let's just
say we didn't
and so you ask this Oracle what's the
best way for me to accomplish goal X
and it knows
if it takes you literally
um and it and it it actually answers
your question correctly the answer to
your question
will will be a thing that causes you to
bootstrap an AI
that then takes over the world and
accomplishes the goal that's the most
reliable way to accomplish that goal now
I just laid out a chain of argument with
a lot of if this then this if this then
this if this then this
uh I know Eliza thinks that like we're
all doomed for sure
um
I buy his Doom argument I buy the chain
and the logic I just think that like
first of all I'm less optimistic with
the current set of technology is going
to get to self bootstrapping super
intelligence I'm less optimistic than he
is that we could officer pessimist
whatever unless I'm not sure than he is
that when it hits that self
bootstrapping step that uh that process
will be fast and that we will that there
aren't
important new discoveries that will take
a long time on top of that that we
haven't found I'm less sure that uh
uh
this was the idea of alignment getting
it you could make the IAI such that it
wants the same things we want and then
if you ask it to do the thing it won't
go and do horrible things because it's
not dumb and it's aligned and if it
wants the same things it knows what you
mean it's smart
and it has it has aligned goals hooray
like that'll work great I'm Le uh Elijah
thinks that we're like just alignments
this incredibly hard problem that like
is almost unsolvable more doomed I'm
like not so sure I think it's a more
solvable problem than he thinks it is
for a variety of reasons you know just
it would take too long to let go into
but like my my belief is that it's
easier
um
and so uh as a result like my P Doom my
probability of Doom is like
my bid ask spread and that's pretty high
because I have a lot of uncertainty but
I would say it's like between
like
five and fifty
so there's a wide spread which I think
Paul Cristiano Paul Christiano who
handled uh you know a lot of the stuff
within open AI I think said 25 to 50. it
seems like if you if you talk to most AI
yeah researchers there's some
preponderance of people that's that
percentage that should cause you to
your pants but it's human level
Extinction I think yeah because no it's
not a human level Extinction it's such
extincting humans is bad enough it's
like potential destruction of all value
in the light code like like not just for
us but for any species caught in the
wake of the explosion like
uh it's like a universe destroying bomb
like it's really if if if if if if it's
really bad it's bad in a way that's like
makes global warming like not a problem
it's bad in a way that makes normal
kinds of bad not uh that's not
normally I'm like yeah we'll just roll
the dice it's fine we'll figure it out
later yeah no no like this should go
this is not a figured out later thing
this is like a
big problem southern Manhattan
Miami might go underwater like okay okay
but this is we're talking about and so
why do you think I mean I I it's like
someone figured out how to invent it a
way to make like 10x more powerful
Fusion Bond bombs out of like sand and
bleach
that like could anyone could do at home
yeah
um
it's terrifying and and
I've had enough time with it now that I
can laugh about it when I first realized
it was heart stopping when was
that uh
probably like
it's it was it was a dinner I went to
before
when opening I was just we had basically
right after attention is all you need
had been written like and they sort of
realized the scaling laws were there and
I went to a dinner and someone was there
and they were talking about it and they
were like I think we were were uh
we actually might be on the path to
build a general AI attention you all you
need was 2018. yeah I think early 2017
2017. um
and Google paper that yeah
and uh and I I heard about the problem I
thought about it I just had I'd like I'd
been like the the AI Doom thing seems
plausible whatever like I don't think an
AI is coming anytime soon so I'm just
not gonna think about it that hard yet
uh
and then I was like oh maybe and then I
started thinking about it harder and
then I was like oh
oh oh
um and so uh
uh I guess
the the pro I believe the proper
response is like
unfortunately this isn't the kind of
thing where
uh we can stop forever
and it unfortunately is also the kind of
thing where like more time is good like
I'm actually I'm okay with stretching
the time a little bit but like
ultimately to solve the problem
um I think this is one of my biggest
points of Divergence with uh yukowski
um
he is a mathematician philosopher
you know decision theorist by training I
am an engineer
am I everything I've ever learned about
engineering is the only way you will
ever get something that works if you
need to work on the first try
is to build lots of prototypes and
models at the smaller scale and practice
and practice and practice and practice
and and trot build start building the
thing but like smaller
and if there is a world where we survive
it is and everything goes wrong where we
build an AI That's smarter than humans
and we survive it it's going to be
because
we built smaller AIS in that and we
actually had lots of as many people
smart people as we can working on that
and taking the problem seriously
and so I'm I'm generally I'm in favor of
trying to create accounts I've got a
fire alarm where we were like like maybe
not AI is bigger than x at some point
like trying to like create a and I
actually think there's good reason to
believe like nobody wants to end the
world and this argument is not that hard
to understand
and so actually there's good there's a
good option for international
cooperation and like treaties about some
sort of you know the AI Test Ban 3D
about not bigger than x
at some point I don't think I don't
think we're actually at the point where
it needs to be not bigger than our the
current AIS are just not that smart yet
but I think we should be moving towards
creating that kind of a some kind of
soft I don't we have to figure out what
that looks like because it's it's
trickier to set that than it setting
that rule is way harder than it looks
writing good policy is hard we should be
thinking about it now
I just think I don't think we're ready
for it yet but in the meantime on these
smaller models we it is good that lots
of people are around with them
it's good that we have more and more
people trying to figure out how they
work and trying to figure out how you
can make them do things how figuring out
how to make them do bad things
the best way to figure out how to stop a
big AI from doing bad things we'll have
the best way as much it is true
there's a bunch of failure modes for
super intelligent AIS that don't exist
unless super intelligence AIS and we
better not bet on oh don't worry it
works it works in the dumb ones it'll
work no no that's not how it works you
can't do that but like we will figure it
we are figuring out more and more about
the principles of how it works and if if
we survive it's going to be because that
process produces a a good generalized
understanding a good generalized model
of how these kinds of predictive models
which I think includes humans as we are
some kind of very complex predictive
model
with other stuff too but like that's a
big part of what a human is we'll
understand how those work at a deeper
level we'll have some of some science of
it actually and that's what we need we
need a science of AIS right now we have
an engineering of a highs and no science
of AIS and we need to get use the
engineering to bootstrap ourselves into
a science of AIS before we build the
super intelligent AI
so that it doesn't tell us all why do
you think people are struggling with the
discourse around this like very smart
people seem to abject it's very very
obviously mood affiliation rules
everything around me
people don't make decisions on a
reasoning basis I mean myself included
most of the time I happen to like
I happen to
find this problem interesting and
compelling on its own so I spent a lot
of time like digging into the arguments
themselves because I was like drawn to
it but like most of the time I make
decisions the same way as everyone else
does the person pitches me on pitching
me on the Flat Earth thing who's saying
that like a bunch of things I don't
really like listen to them I just like
I can they say some things and it
triggers like oh you're part of that
tribe those people generally I don't
think think very clearly I'm just gonna
discount everything you're saying and
ignore you yeah Robin Hansen talks about
9 11 people and it's like you don't
argue with them you just sort of move on
yeah conversation and the AI people
sound like
uh religious nuts who are telling you
about the end of the Doomsday into the
world and it sadly pattern matches
really nicely right like the AI is like
the you know it's like the Antichrist
it's coming and you know if what if
we're good the good AI will come and
save us from that if it's like it sounds
like like
uh
Christian rapturists yes
um Last of Us yeah it uh unfortunately
um reasoning from fictional evidence is
it doesn't work and that mood
affiliation reminds me of this is not an
argument and the Earth is not round
because the flat earthers sound crazy
the Earth is round because you can
demonstrably
see that the Earth is round and go
measure that yourself and it's true
and if you make decisions
based on anyone who's telling you that
doing X will unleash a force which is
going to kill us all they sound like a
bunch of
uh crazy religious people because it's
never happened before it's never
happened before guaranteed guaranteed
the first time that's true we're all
dead because your algorithm always
predicts the same thing you know the
thing you're going through in your head
always predicts the same outcome for
anyone who is predicting Doom from
creating a powerful force Beyond human
ability now
it is true you should be skeptical in
general when someone proposes that
because there are a lot there are
Infinity examples from the past three
you know six thousand years of history
of people predicting that falsely about
things
and and people
people made imaginary cures for medicine
medicinal cures for like tinctures that
were supposed to cure you for a very
very long time and then we made one that
worked
and and you just can't reason that way
sometimes sometimes it's new sometimes
it's not like before usually it's like
before and sometimes it's not and I I am
personally convinced this time it is not
like before and I encourage everyone
who's in that mode like
the main thing that what I want you to
pay attention to is listen to me like
people like me listen to people like uh
even utkowski who I disagree with when
the amount of Doom but we're like
pro-cryonics Pro technology like
technology is going to fix all our
problems crazies like if I if I have a
if I have a defect it's that I am too
Pro technology I want too little
regulation like are you doing Ionix by
the way I have not signed up yet I
really should I've been it's one of
those things on my to-do list I'm
failing the rationality test yes um
uh but uh but you're a techno Optimist
I'm a techno Optimist and like and most
of you should notice that the people the
people who are affected by this
particular one
are not like the people who generally
predict we're not Paul airlock is full
of on like oh the Doom is coming
the population bomb he is wrong and
weirdly so and refuses to learn from his
lesson that he's wrong again he's wrong
over and over again
this is not like that
like I am not panicked about global
warming I think I think alarming is a
real thing I don't want to say like I
don't want anyone to walk away thinking
like I think isn't real but like I
believe I I believe in technology the
engineers will figure it out don't worry
it's gonna be fine I'm not quite sure
um it might have some well depending on
whether we play to have the political to
get around to it quickly or not it might
have more or less dire consequences but
like we will figure it out eventually it
will be fine we will figure we will get
this I do and it's okay so here here I
am being the guy who's like the Techno
Optimist and I am like no no the AI I
think that this thing though actually
maybe may be a problem and I think if
you're if you are rejecting it because
we sound like a bunch of crazy it's just
notice that like at least a some number
of people who are worried about this
are not are on your I'm on your team I'm
on the Techno Optimus team
really
think and it and it's not it's not
obvious why it's true it takes a good
deal of Engagement with the material to
see why it's true because at first
at first it seems like it shouldn't be
that big of a deal it shouldn't be that
big of a problem but then the more you
dig in then we realize like oh well
actually but wait a second
and it is and so like I just encourage
people to engage with the technical
merits of the argument and I
always welcome people to come to to you
know ask questions but also like if you
want to debate
no no I have an idea we can align it
this way do this and it will create a
you know it will create the AI that like
cares about things we care about we want
your ideas like that's great let's have
an argument about that self-improvement
won't work
okay if no because like people have said
self-improvement will work in the past
and it never did then I don't want to
hear it because whatever it's not a real
argument but if you have an actual
like argument about how the current
learning techniques won't work for that
for some
reason engineering reason
absolutely let's talk about it well I'm
glad we spent all this time building
your credibility as a normal person just
go off the rails here but but seriously
I mean it's uh it is something that
people are like genuinely concerned
about and there's no incentive you have
Mark Andreessen published something
recently about like Ai and he had a
bunch of different points against it but
the AI killing everyone point was the
first one and I I think it went back to
a lot of discourse around people that
profit from this is their business and
this is how they make money and
therefore that's what why they're
intended to communicate in this way you
are not I I as far as I know your
business is not in Dooms uh doomsday
scenario planning around AI I have no
Financial stake in in either doomsday or
planning around AI or the other weird
like double think 40 chess thing people
impute to uh it is like oh we're
actually trying to build up open Ai and
anthropic as being and Google as being
like super powerful and it's on ego
thing about making talking about how
amazingly great this stuff is so we can
like raise more money for opening and
Regulatory capture yeah yeah and like
like I don't own any equity in any of
these things you're not trying to help
your 2006 batch made 2005 batchmates no
he's he's Sam Hunt's really good at
raising money like he does not need my
help yes I promise yeah what would you
recommend to people I mean uh if they
are curious about all of this stuff and
like I I when people ask me about it
because I've had Eliezer on they're like
so now what and they're like ah you know
call your Congressman I don't know so
there's sort of two paths that you can
where you can contribute if you care
about this problem one is um
if you're Technical and you're
technically minded
um and you think that you uh
but you want to work on it like go learn
how the AIS work and work on
interpretability
and work on uh courage ability and can
you define those terms so durability is
like understanding what's going on
inside the AI which we are very little
understanding right of right now yeah
and ability is is how do you make a
decision making
thing that is willing to be corrected
by others
but he's actually and that's sort of
that's where Eliza has a lot to say
about this he's kind of a decision
Theory thing how do you get it to sort
of like believe that
even though everything it knows seems
like this is the best way of doing it
the other or telling me that's not right
and so I'm open to being corrected by
their point of view how do you make it
sort of this how do you how do you give
something humility almost in a way right
um and and we have no idea to do that
either
um we've made some we've had more
progress on interpretability than
courage ability but
made a little bit of progress on both
and we're making more on
interpretability and
what the my real pitch for this is it's
actually really interesting there's just
stuff lying around that no one's checked
no one's tried it's like uh when the
microscope was invented and suddenly
like you could just make a scientific
career by like pointing microscopes at
things and like there were like lots of
things to point the microscope out that
no one had ever looked at before
we have a mind you can go look at and
examine and experiment with I've never
had one of those before and so there's a
bunch of like interesting kind of like
scientific workers I would encourage
people to go do scientific work on AIS
go take the AIS other people have built
and then the engineering and try to see
what science you can do to them
particularly around interpreting what's
going on inside them or how you get them
to accept corrective feedback
um
if you're more if you're not technically
minded and you don't feel like learning
how to like actually build a Transformer
um
they you have there's less obvious how
you contribute directly but uh
I think mostly like
uh
helping correct the debate and correct
the tone of the discussion because this
like the super intelligent AI must kill
it might kill everyone thing gets
wrapped together with a bunch of other
concerns about AI that are real they're
their things but they're like normal
concerns like
will it just cause discrimination job
loss what's called job loss like I know
that let
that stuff's all like a thing but like
honestly on those things I sort of feel
about it the way I feel about most
regulation we're like
you know like it's a little early
probably there probably will be a good
regulation to write we don't know what
it looks like the area is evolving so
fast very hard to write good good
regulation
don't let that get confused
um job loss doesn't kill everyone yeah
so there's so there's there's AI ethics
and there's then there's AI not kill
everyone ism
and
the ad not kill everyone thing is like
we need the AI to not kill everyone
don't let people mush it together when
you see hear people conflating the two
correct the record uh because they're
just not the same idea
um and they're the same kind of problem
and they won't be solved with the same
kind of tools and uh
uh
the danger is that those two get sort of
wrapped together into some
thing again gets rejected by people who
just like well I don't who rejects the
safety AI safety aif ethics stuff that
they it's like well this doesn't really
make sense which I kind of agree with a
lot of the people who say like most that
stuff kind of doesn't make sense to me I
could see a theory maybe some of it um
we will throw out the the good part with
the bad and a lot of that other stuff is
true of almost any technology right yeah
that stuff is just general it's General
technological like and that's my thing
of why I think Silicon Valley in
particular has has struggled to talk
about this and I don't even know what my
fully formed opinions are on this stuff
but it's that for a long time Silicon
Valley has been accused of all the
negative externalities that are going to
come from uh whatever the technology is
that we've integrated around and so
everyone's very used to being defensive
about like oh job loss yeah
everyone's on the on the defense against
anything critical like sort of broadly
critical of new technologies because it
pattern matches to a bunch of people who
go around throwing up check throwing
chaff in the air attacking everything
all the time even when it doesn't really
make any sense
and so it's easy to slot it into that
the slot the whole thing into that thing
and just you know
throw it away and I just think like
uh
the uh there's there's a piece of that
that is different than the normal than
the norm it's hard Verity mood
affiliation drives most of our decision
making and it's hard to get people to
notice that
I have three more questions how are you
on uh time can we keep going time is it
we're almost at 30 so we're way overtime
um
what's my calendar here
um
oh I have to meet my friend uh let me
just text my friend real quick okay
um these won't be nearly as long as AI
ethics
all right all right
um
there's a graphic you tweeted out about
income that you said you keep handy for
dinner parties uh why do you keep that
graphic we'll show it on screen as we're
talking but why do you find that graphic
so interesting
um
it shows I think on a more optimistic
note than the one we were just on there
yeah yeah it it shows so first of all
the fundamentally what it shows is in
general people getting much richer
households getting much richer and
specific
um
house you know
the the almost all of it is the the bulk
of this curve moving down and that the
big spike on the right isn't a small
number of people getting much wealthier
it's
a lot more people making 200 that more
than 200 000 a year like eight percent
of the population and for people
listening it's like a distribution since
1970 or something of income and maybe a
Family household income in real terms
and in real terms and so it slides from
like a you know sliding kind of smiling
graph to being much more on the 200k
plus side of the axis and but the other
thing that happens is it goes from being
a pretty defined like bell curve to like
this weird like almost like exponential
decay shape like there's still a lump in
the bell curve area but like it's less
and less a bell curve and more and more
flat like an exponential decay curve of
people making every bucket people makes
there are slightly fewer people in the
bucket but actually there's about as
many people in forty thousand 30 to 40
as there are in 50 to 60 as there are 60
to 70 as they're already 70 to 80. it's
actually the main story is the
flattening
of the distribution
and what that flattening means is it
used to be there was a normal income
uh normal household income was 30 35 000
a year and if you're within and some
people made a little bit more and some
people made a little bit less but
for the most part everyone was in the
mode they had they made there was a real
modal income the there was a most common
income
and most people made relatively close
almost everyone made relatively close to
that that amount of money
and what has been happening and then you
had some number of very rich people and
like medium rich people but like the
bulk of society was in that thing and
what's been happening is
uh
there isn't really a norm anymore we've
destroyed the norm and instead there's
just
some people made a lot more money some
people made a lot a lot more money some
people made a medium amount more money
some people made a little more money
but like in general uh
everyone's do making like uh everyone's
making more but the the
there isn't a it's hard everyone at can
now look to the person the left and the
person on the right there's like lots of
people making a lot more money than me
and lots of people making a lot less
money than me for most people
and that feels bad it feels like
inequality it also is inequality
actually but but everyone's getting
richer which is good and yet somehow
it's this flattening that creates a
sense of like being left behind and
I don't quite know what to do about it
because it's a it's a very optimistic
story on the one hand of like
American households generally getting
much wealthier and many many more people
having access to more uh resources which
is good that's the good that we'd like
that
um there is a slight Spike at the very
bottom of people with almost nothing I
think that's that is that's also an
issue
um
and it's not to say there aren't any
issues in our society like you know
obviously Healthcare education
um housing all cost you much but
like the the real
uh
underlying thing that bothers people
that that on the other side of like this
this flattening out I'm not quite sure
how you
how do you how do you how do you fix
that without like making everyone really
poor there's an easy way to fix it make
everybody poor
go back everyone take it take a bunch of
money for everybody it's easy to break
things it's easy to make people more
poor um and so
I think a big part of what happens there
is as it's you get spread out more you
have the the housing in the middle
um the people in the middle can't afford
things that get bit if there's a good
that gets where there's a limited Supply
and it's getting bit up and you make
you're making more money on that
particular good you are screwed and that
sounds a lot like education and housing
to me um and so I think that's a that's
a big part of why it feels so bad for
people
um which is why I care so much about
getting more housing made making
education more available I think these
these things are very important
you recently turned 40 and you did a Tim
Urban ish layout of your life and time
spent doing that exercise was it on a
weekly basis yeah every week yeah every
week
did an internalization of turning 40 and
laying graphically out how you spent
your time did were there any takeaways
from from that that you
I mean I kind of I knew the story
already yeah um
it was just kind of cool to see it all
laid out
um and uh
I guess my biggest takeaway was man I
spent a long time in school yeah it's
been a really long time like maybe
longer than I needed to like maybe I
could have started working earlier in
retrospect yeah uh that was not that
many surprises it was fun though it's
like fun to encourage everyone to do it
it's fun to lay your life out like that
and take a look at it you live in San
Francisco are you optimistic about San
Francisco absolutely the city is uh
doing doing much better than it was
during covet Cove is very hard in San
Francisco I think
um
we have problems
um you know the fentanyl crisis is
really real people are dying in the
streets it's like not okay
um
but we also have a lot of really big
advantages
um and there's a lot of good happening
in the city too and I'm uh
I think I'm most encouraged by the
number of people I know who
uh have built their careers and their
lives here and who are committed to the
city and who are
not leaving and they're planning to do
the work to try to make San Francisco
better place where it's you know
the core things that everybody cares
about right like you shouldn't be people
who
don't have anywhere to live dying on the
streets uh there shouldn't be obvious
rampant crime people being victimized by
that uh left and right uh there
shouldn't be housing shouldn't be so
expensive that like you have to be rich
to have access to it
um
there should be better Transit options
for people um they don't they don't want
them stuck in traffic like the park we
have more and better Parks like I don't
know there's none of these things are
controversial and in fact I wouldn't
even say any of these things are
uh things that we want we don't
all we don't have wide agreement that we
should go do
um
it's a matter of I think that I pretty
strongly disagree with many of the
people who but what will cause the
outcome but I think the good news is
we're all aligned on wanting the same
things and so it's just a matter of
getting the right plan in place for the
right people executing it
um and these kinds of changes are not uh
startups are all about speed
um politics and government policy is all
about consistency
and so that's that's sort of where my
focus is just you know keep keep turning
the wheel last one before I let you go
what's what's a piece of conventional
Silicon Valley wisdom that you
wholeheartedly disagree with or think
people get wrong
the the most of the wholehearted wisdom
in Silicon Valley is 100 correct for
certain people in certain context and
100 wrong for other people in other
contexts and trying to come up with a
piece of advice that's always wrong is
like
pretty hard
um because like that's you know advice
is over generalization and so
it almost always is true in some context
um what about proportionally gets said
yeah a lot and like is is should be said
relatively is usually not right
um
oh I I know uh startups hire a players
startups should not be trying to hire
any players I mean you can be trying if
you want you're not you're lying to
yourself uh you don't know what an a
player looks like if you did they
wouldn't work for you
um you might be an a player because you
like the founding team like might be a
players potentially you hope you hope
you are that's your goal but like and
you might hire some a players because
you attract them and they like believe
in the mission I'm not saying you never
hire an a player but they think you're
gonna hire all a players I mean come on
no you're not that's just like a lie and
and
that's okay
and this idea that you can separate
people and sort of a players and B
players anyways I know what people mean
by it it's like you want to hire like
the most talented people in the entire
world but actually what you really want
to hire are talented people who will
work hard and believe in the mission and
who want to work for you
and like there are a lot of those people
and you should go hire them
um and
uh
and that that that idea is like a sort
of toxic Elite idea that like I think I
just think is ridiculous like that's you
can't do it and you shouldn't try
most of the time and then you have
companies
um that are on the very very Cutting
Edge of Technology where
you better hire pretty much all a
players you're gonna die and
you have to hire very slowly Renaissance
Technologies it's basically Renaissance
technology is a hedge fund that actually
hires only like you have to have
published multiple groundbreaking math
papers before they'll like they'll hire
you like in statistics like they're not
joking around they're actually hiring a
players it might be the most interesting
business in the world or at least on a
very short list yeah yeah and but like
you're not rentac yeah don't kick
yourself yeah yeah good well Emmett
thanks for doing this thank you everyone
[Music]
[Applause]
foreign
